The committee and regular sequencer set can be circumvented via the escape hatch, which designates a bonded proposer (via RANDAO) who can publish checkpoints without committee attestations. The bond is {{escapeHatchBondString}}, a high amount that is supposed to protect the single-proof system in case of bugs while still providing a last resort opportunity to circumvent the sequencer set. Aztec has developed a full private execution environment on the L2. This can benefit users because they cannot be censored based on their transaction content.
### Selective censorship
On a live Aztec L2 with a given fraction of censoring sequencers, users can either send private transactions or wait for a non-censoring committee and proposing sequencer to include their public transaction.
### Blanket censorship
If users are censored by the entire sequencer set, even if it stops block production just to censor, anyone can join the sequencer set permissionlessly at the churn rate or circumvent it completely by bonding and using the escape hatch. In both cases, expensive hardware is required to provide the required validity proof. Motivated censorers can try to saturate the entry queue and the escape hatch with their own new sequencers and thus lower the inclusion chances of the censored.
### Walkaway
In the scenario of all sequencers stopping their service, the escape hatch provides an inclusion guarantee of {{escapeHatchFrequencyString}} in the worst case and the sequencer set can heal long-term by permissionless entry and churn.
