The regular upgrade process for shared system contracts and L2-specific validium contracts starts at the PolygonAdminMultisig. For the shared contracts, they schedule a transaction that targets the ProxyAdmin via the Timelock, wait for {{upgradeDelayString}} and then execute the upgrade. An upgrade of the Layer 2 specific validium contract requires first adding a new rollupType through the Timelock and the AgglayerManager (defining the new implementation and verifier contracts). Now that the rollupType is created, either the local admin or the PolygonAdminMultisig can immediately upgrade the local system contracts to it. Chains using pessimistic proofs often have completely sovereign upgrade paths from the ones described here, but the shared contracts still remain relevant to them because they use them as escrow.

The PolygonSecurityCouncil can expedite the upgrade process by declaring an emergency state. This state pauses both the shared bridge and the AgglayerManager and allows for instant upgrades through the timelock. Accordingly, instant upgrades for all system contracts are possible with the cooperation of the SecurityCouncil. The emergency state has been activated {{emergencyActivatedCount}} time(s) since inception.

Furthermore, the PolygonAdminMultisig is permissioned to manage the shared trusted aggregator (proposer and prover) for all participating Layer 2s, deactivate the emergency state, obsolete rollupTypes and manage operational parameters and fees in the AgglayerManager directly. The local admin of a specific Aggchain can manage their chain by choosing the trusted sequencer, manage forced batches and set the data availability config. For sovereign chains using pessimistic proofs they can manage any proof logic that might be used on top of the minimal pessimistic one. Creating new Layer 2s (of existing rollupType) is outsourced to the PolygonCreateRollupMultisig but can also be done by the PolygonAdminMultisig. Custom non-shared bridge escrows have their custom upgrade admins listed in the permissions section.
