---
  title: "Governance Review #39"
  description: "There are lots of new proposals across the board this week."
  publishedOn: "2025-02-10"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**


### **Anticapture Commission - S7 Internal Operating Procedures**

Pumbi from SEEDGov [created a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission-s7-internal-operating-procedures/9636) outlining the internal operations the Anticapture Commission will follow during Season 7. The communication channels were presented to the collective so they could have direct contact with the ACC. As in previous seasons, the ACC will be in charge of reviewing and identifying the proposals that are subject to ACC exercising and have bi-weekly calls to address any questions from the community.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing Optimism’s ACC role during Season 7 and see how we can utilize the information going forward or if there have been things the community has feedback on.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Token House Community Call]( https://meet.google.com/vme-ovto-jcn) on 11.2 at 19:00 UTC.


## **Arbitrum**


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[OpCo: A DAO-adjacent Entity for Strategy Execution](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/41351298371775353090222506531903916823291804644712693824312064183457809617851?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - end on February 13 at 18:51 UTC

[Stable Treasury Endowment Program 2.0](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/13323456481927947871314500108227684550647495448005726995657704713229313956489?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on February 14 at 01:12 UTC

[Arbitrum D.A.O. (Domain Allocator Offerings) Grant Program - Season 3](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/47215139570733026393508270943324710379923699871435188004224569883226292800465?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on February 20 at 16:14 UTC

**Temp-check**

[Request to Increase the Stylus Sprint Committee's Budget](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x45513bb63946582432afa7213bcb2677e877dabbd5722210efd5eaf45797031c) - ends on February 13 at 18:55 UTC


### **[RFC] Arbitrum Audit Program**

Arbitrum Foundation (AF) [has posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-audit-program/28368) a proposal to implement a subsidy scheme to fund projects needing financial assistance for audits. Only projects meeting specific criteria will qualify for the funding. The proposal also mentions that the AF will evaluate the auditors who want to apply for the program. The Arbitrum Audit Committee will oversee the process, comprising three members from the Arbitrum Foundation, Offchain Labs, and a technical expert elected by the DAO. The total budget earmarked for this initiative is 30M ARB for 1 year of operations.


### **[RFC] GCP Council Salary Updates, Ops Improvements, and Transparency Cadence**

Djinn from the GCP [created a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/gcp-council-salary-updates-ops-improvements-and-transparency-cadence/28362) that proposes three changes to the GPC's original proposal. First, it’s suggested that the annual compensation for GCP council members be increased to align it with comparable compensation for other similar roles within Arbitrum DAO. Second, it asks for the Arbitrum Foundation to be allowed to send ARB instead of USDC to the GCP. Finally, the proposal asks for a change in the frequency of the reports from 3 months to 6 months. The additional budget requested is $240k, but it’s important to note that these funds will come from the GCP’s budget and not from the DAO’s treasury.


### **[RFC] Not missing the AI train**

Danielo from Rndao [submitted a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-not-missing-the-ai-train/28393) to make Arbitrum an ideal home for AI agents. The reason behind this proposal is that many L2s have started to implement AI in their ecosystems, so Arbitrum needs to explore this topic and see how they can get involved with it. The proposal mentions that it will have a tentative team in charge to become the key contact point for AI builders, researchers, and everybody who wants to support this initiative. The proposal suggests earmarking ~$500,000 for the initiative.


### **[RFC] Arbitrum Growth Circles Event Proposal**

Farstar, the group behind the [Arbitrum Ventures Initiative](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-ventures-initiative-hub/26008), has [published a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-growth-circles-event-proposal/28375) to make a five events series every 3 months to empower the community as a self-sustaining support system for early-stage and high-growth (pre-token) protocols. The idea is to create a space where protocols, developers, and ecosystem participants can gain insights, share experiences, and network. The budget requested to make this happen is $50k.


### **[RFC] CyberCash - Driving Crypto Adoption on Arbitrum**

PossumLabs has [created a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/grant-request-cybercash-driving-crypto-adoption-on-arbitrum/28389) that seeks a grant from the Arbitrum DAO to bootstrap CyberCash’s fair launch liquidity pool using ARB instead of ETH, increasing ARB’s on-chain utility while fostering transaction-driven adoption. CyberCash ($CASH) is built on Arbitrum One, and it’s designed to drive real-world crypto adoption through aligned incentives. According to the tentative timeline, this initiative has executables in 2025 and part of 2026, with the budget requested being 300,000 ARB.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re keen to discuss the above initiatives, provide feedback, and see if there are things we can do to help push them forward. 

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Open Discussion of Proposal(s) - Bi-weekly Governance Call](https://meet.google.com/hhd-vitw-xzm?ijlm=1738080260926&hs=187&adhoc=1) on 11.2 at 16:00.

[Entropy Advisors - biweekly office hours](https://meet.google.com/rms-unku-wsq) on 11.2 at 17:15.

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 13.2 at 15:00

[ADPC RPC Marketplace RFP - AMA Session for RFP Respondents](meet.google.com/rqv-egnv-rui) on 13.2 at 21:00


## **Uniswap**


### **[RFC] Telos L1 Application for Canonical Uniswap V3 Deployment**

Telos has [created an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-telos-l1-application-for-canonical-uniswap-v3-deployment/25237) to establish a canonical deployment of Uniswap V3 on Telos. As with all canonical v3 deployments, this deployment will be subject to Ethereum Layer 1 Uniswap Protocol governance and control. The text record of the uniswap.eth ENS subdomain, titled v3-deployments.uniswap.eth, will be amended by the Accountability Committee to include references to the stated v3 contracts. The Uniswap V3 deployment on Telos is complete, and the platform is ready for immediate use by the community.


### **Uniswap Foundation Security Fund (Announcement)**

Fin_areta made a [post announcing](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-foundation-security-fund-ufsf-announcement-thread/24878/6?u=manugotsuka) the launch of the Uniswap Foundation Security Fund, which will be $1M to support security audits for projects building in the Uniswap ecosystem. The [applications](https://areta.fillout.com/cohort-2-projects) are open from Feb 10 to March 5.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Uniswap you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Governance Community Call](meet.google.com/fuj-mbkg-vdu) on 11.2 at 15:00.


## **Hop**


### **Deploy Hop on Status Network - Gasless L2**

Rahul has [submitted a post](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/deploy-hop-on-status-network-gasless-l2/1323) proposing the deployment of Hop Protocol on Status Network, the first natively gasless zkEVM L2 built on the Linea stack. Integrating Hop Protocol will enhance cross-chain liquidity and user onboarding by enabling seamless asset transfers to and from Status Network. With this integration, HOP will receive revenue from the fee collected from Status Network. The timeline for this will be from March 2025 to October 2025.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Hop you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Polygon**


### **PIP-58: Increase BaseFeeChangeDenominator to 64**

Jerry from PolygonLabs [posted a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-58-increase-basefeechangedenominator-to-64/20596/2) to increase the BaseFeeChangeDenominator parameter on the Polygon PoS network from 16 to 64. This parameter is the maximum rate at which the base fee can be adjusted between blocks. This PIP aims to stabilize gas prices during high-demand periods by reducing volatility. 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Polygon you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**


### **SNIP-X: Applicative Paymaster API Standard**

Leo_L from Starkware has [made a post](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-58-increase-basefeechangedenominator-to-64/20596/2) that proposes building a standardized interface that will make it easier for the Starknet ecosystem to integrate an applicative paymaster. It outlines how users (wallets, dApps, etc.) can submit calls and pay fees in ERC-20 tokens, letting paymaster services handle fee estimation and final transaction submission. This approach aims to prevent fragmentation among paymaster implementations, making it easier for wallets, SDKs, and other Starknet ecosystem participants to integrate with different paymaster services in a neutral, interoperable way.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Starknet you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


### **Community Leader Incentivization H1 2025**

Anedi has [introduced an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/community-leader-incentivization-h1-2025/1352) proposing a 3.36M CLEAR budget to fund Everclear’s Community Leaders through the first half of 2025. With this plan, 3 Community Administrators, 4 Moderators, and 1 Content Creator would be compensated, with the possibility of additional hires. The budget accounts for salaries, a buffer for token price fluctuations, and a community treasury for local events, educational content, and incentivizing regional growth initiatives. The idea is to generate impact with the community leaders and reach specific pending KPIs such as participation percentages on the Discord server and the number of new followers/impressions.


### **CLEAR Transfer Migrations**

NMajors has [published an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/social-egp-21-clear-transfer-migrations/1353) that seeks to migrate the minting rights of the CLEAR token from Amarok bridge to Everclear. The main reason is that Amarok bridge is undergoing a sunset process, degrading its performance. This migration is necessary to keep an optimal cross-chain transfer of the CLEAR token, improving the UX of bridging tokens between all chains.


### **EverScale Proposal**

NMajors [has posted a proposal](https://forum.connext.network/t/executable-cgp-everscale-proposal/1354) to allocate 100M CLEAR (10% of total supply) over 24 months to onboard top ecosystem partners (like solvers, rebalancers, and market makers) as long-term volume drivers of the protocol. The program plans to distribute 4.2M CLEAR monthly starting in March 2025, subject to a 12-month linear unlock, with an initial 3-month “Season 1” to assess performance. The aim is to push monthly rebalancing volumes to $1B, reduce cross-chain liquidity costs, and elevate Everclear to a critical layer for interchain flows. If, after 3 months, the protocol cannot reach at least $100M in monthly volume, the program will be paused and reconsidered.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the EverScale proposal with other delegates and relevant stakeholders as we believe it’s a big and important decision that should be carefully considered.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**


### **Lisk DAO Season 1**

The Lisk admin account [has introduced a proposal](https://forum.lisk.com/t/lisk-dao-season-1/198) to fund Lisk DAO Season 1, allocating 3.65M LSK to accelerate the Lisk ecosystem through two core initiatives: Builder Grants and Ecosystem Incentives. This season will run until June 11th, 2025. The plan focuses on growing TVL, boosting user engagement, and integrating Lisk with the Superchain. A Grants Council will oversee funding approvals, while a Steering Committee monitors results and reports back to the DAO.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Lisk you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**

ZKSync’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Standing ZKsync Proposal Review Call](http://meet.google.com/qvr-txgr-vja ) on 12.2 at 16:30


## **Scroll**


### **Ambassador Programs – Navigating Scroll’s Growth Series**

Feems has [posted research](https://forum.scroll.io/t/ambassador-programs-navigating-scroll-s-growth-series/477) on how ambassador programs can expand the Scroll ecosystem by promoting community engagement, developer adoption, and grassroots education. The analysis reviews initiatives from Arbitrum, Celo, and Morph, highlighting structured mentorship, tiered contribution models, regional advocacy, and technical education. By embracing these best practices (such as defining clear roles for ambassadors, incentivizing meaningful contributions, and supporting localized outreach), Scroll can design an ambassador program that guarantees the growth and engagement of the community.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Scroll you think we should be aware of or involved with, please bring them to our attention.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Malaysia Local Nodes Program](meet.google.com/rpj-dtkh-qxf) on 11.2 at 13:00.

[Scroll LRTs Vision and Roadmap - Weekly DAO & Governance Call](meet.google.com/smr-hxgd-btt) on 12.2 at 12:30.

[Delegate Training Discussion](meet.google.com/yaj-mpsb-yng) on 12.2 at 17:30.

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](meet.google.com/mhz-ncvc-ipd) on 12.2 at 18:00.