---
title: "Governance Review #48"
description: "Another week of governance news, proposals, updates, and innovation in the DAOs."
publishedOn: "2025-04-22"
authorId: manuel-gonzalez
---

## **Optimism**


### **Cycle 35 Audit Grants final report**

Gonna.eth [has created a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/cycle-35-audit-grants-final-report/9836/1) announcing the wrap-up of Cycle 35 for the Optimism Grants Council’s audit-grant track, noting that only five audit requests were funded. At the same time, 14 were rolled over to the upcoming Cycle 36, and 17 were rejected outright. The funded slate—covering projects such as Untitled Bank, ExtraFi’s XLend and RiftLend—requested 582,876 OP from the programme’s 1M OP budget, leaving roughly 42% (417,124 OP) for what is likely to be the final round of Season 7. Since the remaining pool should suffice, the Council states it will not seek additional OP unless a truly exceptional application appears in the next cycle. Delegates were reminded that 12 fresh TVL‑growth proposals and two new audit requests are already queued for Cycle 36.


### **SuperStacks: An Experiment for Incentivising Superchain Interop-Ready TVL across the Superchain**

The Optimism Foundation has created a post to present SuperStacks, a pilot running April 16 – June 30 that pays DeFi participants in “points” for depositing liquidity into designated pools on Superchain rollups. By rewarding depth, length of stay, and other factors, the program tries to nudge capital toward assets and venues that will matter once true Superchain interoperability is live. If the experiment proves that targeted, cross‑chain incentives can keep users engaged and TVL portable, SuperStacks could grow into a standing incentive framework for every Superchain project and network. Details, eligible pools, and evolving reward formulas are posted on the [SuperStacks site](https://app.optimism.io/superstacks), and the Foundation is asking builders and delegate communities to relay feedback as the trial unfolds.


### **[RFC] Strategic ETH Staking Proposal for the Superchain: Enhancing Security, Yield, and Ecosystem Growth**

0xsignal [has published an RFC](https://gov.optimism.io/t/rfc-strategic-eth-staking-proposal-for-the-superchain-enhancing-security-yield-and-ecosystem-growth/9846) proposing that Superchain rollups start staking a slice of their growing treasury ETH in liquid‑staking tokens. They argue that routing some income into a diversified basket of LSTs would let the Superchain earn a steady yield, bolster Ethereum’s validator set, and recycle extra liquidity into its own DeFi markets. Pointing to ENS’s policy of capping any single token at 20 % of holdings, they suggest a similar diversification standard and highlight Rocket Pool’s permissionless rETH as a natural component of that portfolio.


### **Voting Cycle Guide #36**

alexsotodigital [has posted](https://gov.optimism.io/t/voting-cycle-guide-36/9847) the Cycle 36 governance guide, laying out everything delegates need to know between 10 April and 30 April. The note reminds builders that Retro Funding Missions in Dev Tooling and On‑Chain Builders remain open, prioritizing projects that lift ETH‑denominated TVL and stable, wrapped, or bridged‑asset liquidity across the Superchain. It also recaps the Grants Council calendar: rolling applications until 20 May and formal submission checkpoints on 29 April and 20 May. Key community calls land on 22 April (Joint House and Delegate Onboarding), 29 April (govNERDs check‑in), and 6 May (Token House), with weekly Grants Office Hours each Tuesday. The cycle’s official review window runs 10–23 April, the voting window 24–30 April, and the Citizens’ veto window 1–7 May, though no proposals have yet entered the queue.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Optimism’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Optimism Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[DAB Office Hours](https://discord.gg/optimism?event=1357733357634715970) - on 22.4 at 14:00.

[Grants Council Office House](https://meet.google.com/vkn-qnwy-qqy) - on 22.4 at 17:30.

[Joint House Community Call](https://meet.google.com/vme-ovto-jcn) - on 22.4 at 18:00.

[Delegate Monthly Onboarding Call](https://meet.google.com/bwy-qbcs-str) - on 22.4 at 19:00.


## **Arbitrum**


### **Builders’ Voices Needed: Shaping the Future of Arbitrum Together**

We (L2BEAT) [published](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/builders-voices-needed-shaping-the-future-of-arbitrum-together/29065) a thread asking Arbitrum builders to weigh in as the DAO shapes its 1‑2 year strategic objectives. We believe delegates need direct feedback from project teams, and we invite builders to spend 10 minutes providing their input by answering 4 core questions. Responses are welcome publicly in the thread, privately for anonymized aggregation, or via a live call we’ll be organizing soon.


### **DeFi Renaissance Incentive Program (DRIP)**

Entropy [has created a post announcing](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/defi-renaissance-incentive-program-drip/29049) the “DeFi Renaissance Incentive Program” (DRIP), a one‑year, 80 million ARB scheme that would replace blanket grant campaigns with 4 tightly‑focused, 3‑month “seasons”. Each season would pursue a single, measurable objective— for example, making Arbitrum the best venue to borrow USDT against wstETH or ensuring the chain hosts the deepest BTC liquidity—and would pay rewards directly to user wallets rather than to protocols.

A 3-member steering committee made up of the Arbitrum Foundation, Offchain Labs, and Entropy Advisors would pick the season themes, hire an external distributor to track wallets and pay ARB, and engage an evaluation partner to publish live dashboards and post‑mortems. The committee could tweak, extend, curtail, or kill a season as data rolls in, and unused ARB would roll forward or be returned to the DAO at programme end.

Entropy argues that earlier, broad‑based incentives proved hard to measure and waned after funding stopped. DRIP’s asset‑specific, activity‑specific approach is meant to let Arbitrum target markets where its share can still grow, coordinate business‑development pitches, and iterate quickly, treating incentives like paid growth experiments rather than blanket subsidies. If passed (Snapshot slated for 1 May, on‑chain vote to follow), the first season could go live around 1 July 2025, and the mandate would expire a year later.


### **Proposal: Top-up for Hackathon Continuation Program**

Danielo has[ created a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-consitutional-top-up-for-hackathon-continuation-program/29064) asking the DAO to approve a one‑off “top‑up” so the Hackathon Continuation Program can finish phase 2. Because USDC for the programme was swapped after the market dipped, the multisig now has a shortfall of roughly $89,980. Danielo suggests covering it with part of the unused funds (about $ 200k) that the Questbook Domain‑Allocator round still holds and is due to return to the treasury. The fix is purely a bookkeeping manoeuvre: move $89,980 from the Domain‑Allocator Safe to the Arbitrum Foundation and from there to the MSS that pays the hackathon grantees; any remaining Domain‑Allocator balance would still flow back to the DAO. No fresh ARB is requested.


### **Proposal: enable the new TogetherCrew functionality: Free summarizer and Q&A for delegates’ Telegram chat**

Danielo from RnDAO [proposed](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-enable-the-new-togethercrew-functionality-free-summarizer-and-q-a-for-delegates-telegram-chat/29024) letting the TogetherCrew AI knowledge‑management bot join the delegates’ Telegram chat and scrape the public Arbitrum.io site. The idea is to give delegates free on‑demand summaries and question‑and‑answer retrieval so they no longer wade through hundreds of daily messages or hunt for lost links. Implementation is lightweight: the Arbiutrum Foundation would add the Telegram channel and website as data sources in the existing TogetherCrew dashboard, the read‑only bot would post answers or periodic summaries, and anyone could opt out. The service is offered at no cost for at least 3 months; after that, the Arbitrum Foundation or future OpCo could decide whether to pay for continued use.


### **[DIP v1.6] Delegate Incentive Program Results (March 2025)**

SEEDGov has released [March’s results](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/dip-v1-6-delegate-incentive-program-results-march-2025/29063) for the Delegate Incentive Program. Of 75 delegates who signed up, 65 met the participation criteria, where only  27 earned enough points to receive compensation, with Camelot, Blockworks Research, and L2BEAT topping Tier 1. Over the month, they tracked 3 Snapshot ballots and 3 Tally votes, applied the new “presence in discussion” multiplier across nine active forum threads, and introduced a revamped public reporting page on [Notion](https://governance-seedlatam.notion.site/DIP-Feedback-Report-1af3b4b4c932806ba85ec44cba13afa3). 2 delegates, PauloFonseca and TempeTechie, collected bonus points for the ETH‑Bucharest event, bringing the programme’s March outlay to about $107 k before the ARB cap adjustment. SEEDGov notes that some smaller delegates again missed the cut and stresses that compensation hinges on voting and visible, substantive contributions that move the debate or quorum. Four newcomers—Lovely4Wonders, Tamara, GMX, and DonOfDAOs—have applied for April and will first complete a one‑on‑one onboarding call. Meanwhile, any delegate who disagrees with the March results can file a dispute through the forum.


### **WakeUp Labs - Update Thread: AssemblyScript Integration for the Arbitrum Stylus SDK**

WakeUp Labs [posted an update](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/wakeup-labs-update-thread-assemblyscript-integration-for-the-arbitrum-stylus-sdk/29038) explaining that they are extending the Arbitrum Stylus SDK to support AssemblyScript, a TypeScript‑like language, so JavaScript and TS developers can write high‑performance Stylus contracts without first learning Rust. The integration targets parity with roughly 90 % of existing SDK functionality, promising the same WASM‑level speed while dramatically lowering the entry barrier for Web 3 builders. Work begins with research and SDK design, after which they will publish progress and performance metrics in the Arbitrum forum and keep the community informed as development advances.


### **ADPC Update Thread (Phase II)**

Sid from Areta [has posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/adpc-update-thread-phase-ii/27298/33?u=manugotsuka) a recapitulation of Phase II of the Arbitrum DAO Procurement Committee (ADPC), noting that since its February 2024 approval, the three‑member team (Areta, Axis Advisory, and Daimon Legal) has built procurement frameworks for security and RPC services, launched the Security Subsidy Fund, whitelisted nine security firms and 9 RPC providers, and selected 22 projects for subsidies. Because OpCo’s future remit is still unsettled, the group recommends pausing rather than launching a Phase III until the DAO’s new operating structures are clearer.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Arbitrum’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[SOS Discussion #4](https://arbitrum.huddle01.app/room/hrj-fjjt-cwf) - on 22.4 at 14:00.

[Open Discussion of Proposals Governance Call](https://arbitrum.huddle01.app/room/zqt-insy-uiw) - on 22.4 at 16:00.

[DeFi Education Fund Community Call](https://meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) - on 22.4 at 17:00.

[Entropy Advisors - biweekly office hours](https://meet.google.com/rms-unku-wsq) - on 22.4 at 17:15.


## **Uniswap**


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[BoB Uniswap v3 Incentives Package](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/uniswap/proposal/84) - ends on April 23 at 04:03 UTC.


### **[RFC] Proposal for UniVision - Bridging the Governance Information Gap**

Aadarsh from PYOR [has created](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-proposal-for-univision-bridging-the-governance-information-gap/25471/1) an RFC for “UniVision,” a 3‑month pilot that would turn the dense Uniswap Forum chatter into bite‑sized social‑media content. Twice a month the team would release a 5‑7‑minute explainer video (alternating between proposal round‑ups, protocol deep dives and project spotlights), 4 short clips optimised for X/Shorts, and a written research brief that distils the month’s votes, metrics and upcoming decisions; accompanying posts would push these pieces into the feeds where most UNI holders spend their time. PYOR argues that many token‑holders never open the forum or attend calls, so a dedicated “bridge” is needed to keep them informed and, by extension, improve turnout and deliberation quality. The ask is 580 UNI per month (1,740 UNI for the quarter) to cover a researcher, editor, video producer, and basic tooling; as proof of craft, they point to past explainer work on Compound v3, Arbitrum governance, EigenLayer restaking, and Linea roll‑ups. Feedback is sought on scope, preferred topics, and whether the community would like a free trial video before the idea moves to Temperature Check.


### **Revocation of Uniswap Growth’s Discretionary Budget for Co-Incentive Campaigns**

Pepo, writing in his capacity, [has asked the DAO](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/revocation-of-uniswap-growths-discretionary-budget-for-co-incentive-campaigns/25475) to strip the Uniswap Growth initiative of the fast‑track spending power it received last December. That authority let the Growth team deploy up to $250k of surplus UNI on “urgent” co‑incentive deals without the usual 4‑week governance cycle, provided they published each spend immediately. 4 months later, no campaigns have been launched, no forum updates have appeared, and the EtherFi collaboration cited as time‑sensitive has never materialised. Pepo argues that the silence betrays the urgency case and erodes trust, so any future liquidity‑mining or partnership budgets should return to the standard RFC → Snapshot → on‑chain path. He invites comment for 7 days before moving to a Snapshot revocation vote, followed—if it passes—by an on‑chain execution to end the discretionary mandate.


### **Uniswap Accountability Committee (UAC): Season 3 Report**

The Uniswap Accountability Committee (UAC) [has released](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-accountability-committee-uac-season-3-report/25467) its Season 3 report and opened an RFC about what comes next. They explain that, over the past 7 months, the committee has grown from a simple cross‑chain‑deployment monitor into the DAO’s operational work‑horse: shepherding v3 and v2 launches on 40+ networks, maintaining ENS records, managing multisig disbursements, running incentive campaigns, hosting governance calls, and, most recently, setting up a Foundation Feedback Group that will meet bi‑monthly with the Uniswap Foundation to give token‑holders an extra layer of oversight.

Season 3 saw a sharp jump in official v3 roll‑outs – 17 deployments versus 7the prior season – as new OP‑Stack and ZK‑based L2s flocked to integrate Uniswap. Incentive packages were renegotiated under a “match what you ask” philosophy, leading chains such as Gnosis, Sonic, and Celo to co‑fund liquidity campaigns rather than rely solely on DAO tokens. The committee signed with SafeNotes, registered “uac.eth” for easier tracking, and raised its multisig threshold to 5‑of‑5 for extra security. On transparency, it notes that unused ARB from failed or curtailed campaigns (for example, X Layer’s aborted deal and Sonic’s partial spend) now sits in a surplus bucket awaiting DAO instruction.

Looking ahead, the UAC outlines prerequisites for Uniswap v4 adoption and is drafting a license-exemption registry so new chains can deploy v4 once the DAO approves. For 2025, it proposes a 4th season running through year‑end, with the same 5‑signer committee steering deployments, incentives, accounting, and the freshly minted Foundation Feedback Group. It also requests a delegate's comment on rebalancing programme wallets to cover a few incentive sub‑accounts that are now in deficit. The renewal and the rebalancing will go to separate temperature checks; the UAC invites the DAO’s feedback before the votes are queued.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Uniswap’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[DEF Community Call](https://meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) - on 22.4 at 17:00.


## **Hop**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Lisk’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Polygon**


### **Quadratic Accelerator S1 Impact Report**

0xJustice_qacc [has published](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/quadratic-accelerator-s1-impact-report/20893/1) the Quadratic Accelerator S1 impact report. He explains that q/acc—an experimental launchpad originally aimed at kick-starting activity on Polygon zkEVM—helped 8 projects mint and seed their token economies.

Although more than 300 teams applied, only 8 made the final cohort, covering gaming (Akarun, Ancient Beast), AI tooling (x23), DeFi (Xade Finance), music royalties (Melodex), and infra plays such as Prismo Technology and Citizen Wallet. Collectively, they raised 342k POL from 1,253 on‑chain contributors (almost all first‑time zkEVM users) and locked 2.1 million POL in bonding‑curve liquidity versus the programme’s 1.7 million POL grant outlay—“a 20 % instant return on grant capital,”.After migrating to Polygon PoS for smoother liquidity, the 8 tokens debuted on QuickSwap on 2 April. They reached a combined market cap of nearly $3.4 million (~17 million POL) with $40k of volume in the first week.

The post calls Season 1 merely “ignition,” pointing to new infra upgrades, a live Dune dashboard tracking caps and POL locks, and hints at an accelerated Season 2 that will keep turning grants into self‑sustaining on‑chain economies.


### **Heimdall v1.2.3 release**

Parvez from Polygon’s validator support [has announced](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/heimdall-v1-2-3-release/20890) Heimdall v1.2.3, a build that bumps the bundled Tendermint release, patches several security issues, and tidies the node software. He urges all operators—mainnet and Amoy alike—to stop their heimdalld service, run the one‑line curl installer with the new tag, verify that the heimdalld version prints 1.2.3, then restart Heimdall and telemetry. Those running containers can pull the fresh image from the 0xpolygon/heimdall Docker repo.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Polygon’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Starknet’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


### **Everclear Governance Task Force - Communication Thread**

SEEDGov [has shared a summary](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-governance-task-force-communication-thread/1251/18) of all activity in the DAO from 5 Feb – 17 Apr. In the first bundle (to 1 Apr), the DAO ran through:



* vbCLEAR’s second season pivots to a monthly WETH buy‑back;
* MetaLex’s Cayman‑based BORG shell (96k USDC set‑up + 11.5k USDC yearly);
* A Six-month, 3.36M ‑CLEAR community‑leaders budget;
* The three‑part Code‑of‑Conduct draft (COI, ops, elections—weighted & shielded voting wins);
* Cross‑chain mint‑authority migrations (Amarok ➜ Everclear) and a 5 % cap for Lucid’s multi‑bridge;
* Retro pay for Creed’s extra audit weeks;
* Karma’s 25k renewal for the delegate dashboard;
* Plus a 3/4 “buffer” multisig idea to smooth future price gaps.

In the rest of the activity, the DAO received an RFC from Creed (the Security Council lead) to put Everclear on Immunefi—either a straight‑up $31.7k annual subscription or a discounted $28.53k plan, plus a $25k researcher bounty pot that they’ll co‑match and which returns to the DAO if untouched.

Another open RFC proposes a 3‑of‑4 “buffer” multisig (two GTF members, two delegates) seeded with 10M CLEAR (3.35M retro‑pay for Creed & Karma, 6.65M held for future shortfalls) to avoid piecemeal top‑ups. 

On the product side, Everclear has gone live on main‑net and Solana with a zero‑fee campaign and has added Sprinter, Unichain, and Zircuit routes.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Hop’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Wormhole’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**


## Active Votes

**Onchain**

[Onchain Market Making for $LSK on Ethereum via Arrakis PALM](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/lisk/proposal/104491616640851060908912969330100781751660696512219643195852309797072404571003) - ends on April 29 at 14:24 UTC.


### **Builder Program - Strategy Season 1**

fgtv from the Lisk Business Development team [has submitted](https://forum.lisk.com/t/builder-program-strategy-season-1/298) a Season‑1 “Builder Program – Strategy” proposal. He asks the DAO to route the entire 400k LSK budget already earmarked for “Builder Programs” into three region‑specific accelerators that proved effective for Lisk during 2024:



* **Aya’s Incubation Program** for Africa (25 projects mentored, 12 graduates);

* **Lisk Spark**, run with AngelHack and Indonesia’s government‑backed 1000 Startup Digital (60 applicants, seven now shortlisted);

* **Key Difference’s Pioneer Program** for Southeast‑Asian start‑ups (190 applicants from which ten finalists will be chosen).


The money would be paid as grants and incentives to help these partners continue scouting, mentoring, and funding Web3 founders in high‑growth markets. The aim is to make Lisk L2 the chain where their real‑world‑use‑case dApps launch and scale.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Lisk’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**


### **Proposal: Postpone Token Unlocks to Demonstrate Long-Term Commitment**

Cobinus [has created](https://forum.zknation.io/t/proposal-postpone-token-unlocks-to-demonstrate-long-term-commitment/643) a draft governance proposal that asks zkSync’s early backers to push the next wave of token unlocks back by 6 to 12  months, or to release them in much smaller tranches. He argues that a delay would send a public signal that insiders are committed to building, not cashing out, would lower short‑term sell‑pressure that hurts new builders, and would give the community more time to grow before a significant supply shock hits the market.


### **Capped Minter Framework Update: R&D on Minter Mods and ZK Token Return**

Rafa from the ZKsync governance team [has created a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/capped-minter-framework-update-r-d-on-minter-mods-and-zk-token-return/647) that outlines an upgrade path for the capped‑minter system: a new V2 contract remains the root minting gatekeeper, but it can now be wrapped with “minter‑mods” (rate‑limit, delay, eligibility, trigger, etc.) that behave like stackable middleware—each must green‑light a mint before the request reaches the underlying cap. A separate “ZK Token Return” contract will let programme admins return any unspent ZK to the total supply. Scopelift codes most modules; Factory Labs is building the trigger mod. Early test‑net addresses are public, but everything is still being hardened and audited, and the team is inviting feedback before main‑net deployment.


### **Unclaimed ZK Incident Update - Thread**

Shelby [created a forum thread](https://forum.zknation.io/t/unclaimed-zk-incident-update-thread/642) that explains the details regarding an Unclaimed ZK Incident.

The admin key that governed the 3 airdrop‑distribution contracts (0x842822c797049269A3c29464221995C56da5587D) was exploited; the attacker used it once, calling sweepUnclaimed(), to mint roughly 111 million still‑unclaimed ZK (about 0.45 % of the total supply). Most of the takings remain parked at 0xb102…05d3.

The scope remains strictly limited to those airdrop contracts: every core component—ZKsync Era itself, the main ZK token contract, all governance contracts, and every active capped‑minter program—stayed airtight and could not be hit by the same vector. Engineers have verified that no further tokens can be minted from that contract, and user funds were never exposed.

ZKsync is now working with SEAL‑911 and exchanging security desks to freeze or claw back the loot. It has invited the attacker to contact security@zksync.io to return the funds and sidestep legal fallout. A full incident report will follow when the investigation and recovery push are wrapped up.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to ZkSync’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Standing ZKsync Proposal Review Call](https://meet.google.com/qvr-txgr-vja) - on 23.4 at 15:30 UTC.


## **Scroll**


### **Argentina Local Node - Regional Evaluation**

SEEDGov [has submitted](https://forum.scroll.io/t/argentina-local-node-regional-evaluation/596/2) an Argentina Local Node – Regional Evaluation. The note argues that no other Latin‑American venue blends Web‑3 hunger, engineering depth, and on‑chain traction quite like Argentina: soaring inflation and FX‑controls have turned stablecoins into everyday money; Chainalysis ranks the country first in Latam for per‑capita crypto uptake; and Buenos Aires will host this year’s Devconnect.

Regulation is tightening (new CNV registration for VASPs, FATF‑aligned AML rules, a “blanqueo” tax window). Yet, builders keep flourishing: OpenZeppelin, Nomic/Hardhat, Decentraland, POAP, Balmy, Karpatkey, Ripio, and dozens more were hatched locally. Communities such as SEEDGov, Ethereum Argentina, ONG Bitcoin, The Red Guild, ZK Amigos, and others keep a constant calendar of meet‑ups, hackathons, and node workshops; exchanges from Binance to Lemon and Bitso dominate a retail market where ~62 % of volume is in stablecoins.

SEEDGov proposes to coordinate the node. They point to four years of running IRL meet‑ups, the ongoing “Gira SEED” road‑show across provincial cities, a thriving Nodes Club, Spanish‑language Scroll docs, and top‑10 delegate standing within Scroll’s DAO. The ensuing full proposal (to follow if this regional green‑light passes) would spell out budget, KPI, and programming aimed at founders, Scroll Open hackers, and broader ecosystem outreach.


### **Mexico Local Node proposal [Region’s approval state]**

Humberto Besso [created a post](https://forum.scroll.io/t/mexico-local-node-proposal-regions-approval-state/603) called “Mexico Mobile Scroll Node” regional‑approval draft. He argues that Mexico’s fast‑growing crypto scene—10 % projected adult ownership by 2025, a blockchain market expected to pass $1B by 2033, an AML‑compliant fintech law, and an active roster of exchanges from Bitso to Kraken—makes the country a strategic beach‑head for Scroll in Latin America. Universities, municipal governments, and large events (Ethereum México, Solana Apex, ETH Cinco de Mayo) are already running pilots or hackathons; meanwhile, remittances ($64B a year, 99 % digital) and a STEM‑focused national policy create a natural DeFi and zk‑rollup market.

The proposed node would not be a fixed hub but a Scroll‑branded bus that tours CDMX and Puebla during an initial four‑month pilot. Road‑shows, meet‑ups, and ally‑hosted workshops would funnel founders into a hybrid “builder program”: a flipped‑classroom curriculum delivered online plus in‑person sessions, taught by paid mentors and geared toward preparing teams for Scroll Grants, Scroll Open, and Scroll Campus. SEED Latam veterans supply community leadership; LiberMedia would handle comms. Requested pilot budget: US$ $36k (to cover salaries, mentor fees, and bus logistics).

Feedback from Mexican builders and the wider DAO is invited for one week; a full operational proposal will be drafted if endorsements follow.


### **Brazil Local Node - Regional Evaluation**

Modular Crypto has filed the “[Brazil Local Node – Regional Evaluation](https://forum.scroll.io/t/brazil-local-node-regional-evaluation/613)” pitch. They argue that Brazil, now the largest crypto hub in Latin America with roughly 16M holders and a maturing regulatory framework under the Central Bank, is ready for a dedicated Scroll presence. They plan for Modular Crypto to run the node: publish Portuguese‑language research and livestreams, draw thousands to live events such as Modular Carnaval, and act as active Scroll voters. The node would seed original Scroll workshops, developer tracks, a six‑week “Scroll Open Brazil”, three IRL gatherings, and a state-university hackathon while partnering with Brazil’s many Web3 communities and KOLs. They request operational funding and coordination with the Scroll Foundation, promising ongoing Portuguese content, public task‑boards for contributors, and integration into Brazil’s rapidly expanding fintech landscape, including Drex CBDC trials and major banks tokenising assets.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Scroll’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](https://meet.google.com/smr-hxgd-btt) - on 23.4 at 11:30 UTC.

[Delegate Training Discussion](https://meet.google.com/yaj-mpsb-yng) - on 23.4 at 16:30 UTC.

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](https://meet.google.com/mhz-ncvc-ipd) - on 23.4 at 17:00 UTC.
