---
title: "Governance Review #65"
description: "Slight increase in activity, but the high quality of proposals remains unchanged."
publishedOn: "2025-08-18"
authorId: manuel-gonzalez
---
## **Optimism**

## **Active Votes**

[Security Council Season 7 Retroactive Funding Request](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/95125315478676153337636309965804486010918292377915044655013986825087199254978) - ends on August 20 at 18:26 UTC.

### **[DRAFT] Retroactive Loyalty: Vesting OP Rewards for RetroPGF Badgeholders (Seasons 2–7)**

Mel.eth [posted](https://gov.optimism.io/t/draft-gov-fund-proposal-retroactive-loyalty-vesting-op-rewards-for-retropgf-badgeholders-seasons-2-7/10226) a draft to set aside 5M OP for past RetroPGF badgeholders—Citizens and guest voters from Seasons 2–7—as a retroactive thank-you. Rewards would vest over four years with a one-year cliff, and earlier seasons get a larger share via a quadratic weighting to honor the heaviest early lift. The aim is simple: recognize unpaid work, keep experienced voters engaged, and align governance stewards with Optimism’s long-term success. Around 150–200 addresses would be eligible, with claims handled through a standard vesting contract.

### **S8 Impact Measurement Methodology**

The Optimism Foundation [created a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/s8-impact-measurement-methodology/10219) that outlines a starter framework to get the Grants Council and the rest of the Collective on the same page for Season 8 impact evaluation. The plan is to pick one of two success metrics per grant—change in TVL or change in transaction fees—measured from actual grant delivery through the end of the incentive window, tied to the specific contract addresses being incentivized. To make apples-to-apples comparisons possible, applicants are asked to provide a clear scope, deployment timelines, complete address lists, and any co-incentives, all in a machine-readable format. The goal isn’t perfection; it’s a consistent baseline the Council can shape into a shared attribution model that supports credible decisions across programs.

### **Internal Operating Procedures (IOP) for the M&M Council: Season 8**

PGov [posted the Season 8 IOPs](https://gov.optimism.io/t/internal-operating-procedures-iop-for-the-m-m-council-season-8/10218) for the Milestones & Metrics Council, laying out how it will track deliverables for new and prior-season grantees, publish live analytics on approved recipients, and handle weekly payouts via the M&M multisig (5/7 signers across M&M, GC, and DAB). Milestones are submitted through the application portal; the team coordinates in Telegram and runs regular check-ins to keep reviews and payments moving. Day-to-day work lives in the portal with supporting sheets/docs, and decisions are made by the majority, with the lead breaking ties. Any process tweaks follow the same voting flow and are recorded as they go.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Optimism’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Optimism Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[DAB Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/pgj-ibvv-trr) - on 19.8 at 14:00.


## **Arbitrum**


### **Regen Financial - Token Flow Report Conclusion**

Regen Financial [posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/regen-financial-token-flow-report-conclusion/29822) a close-out note on its Token Flow work, wrapping a year of monthly reporting that set the DAO’s first transparency baseline. The team surfaced idle ETH and pushed for yield deployments, co-designed the Multisig Support Service to cut signing costs, flagged late returns and unclaimed funds for redeployment, and nudged diversification to ease ARB volatility. They also called out process gaps—no clear finance point of contact and uneven delegate engagement—and suggest appointing a single finance lead to unify treasury efforts going forward.


### **ATM Council – Monthly Updates (July 2025)**

Entropy [posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/atm-council-monthly-updates/29627/3?u=manugotsuka) the first complete Arbitrum Treasury Management monthly for July, laying out RWA holdings, ETH and ETH-beta exposure, and how stables are being actively deployed—plus a refreshed public dashboard that’ll grow as new allocations land.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Arbitrum’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Uniswap**


### **[RFC] - Establish Uniswap Governance as “DUNI,” a Wyoming DUNA**

Uniswap Foundation [posted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-establish-uniswap-governance-as-duni-a-wyoming-duna/25770) to stand up “DUNI,” a Wyoming-registered Decentralized Unincorporated Nonprofit Association that recognizes on-chain votes as binding while giving governance participants limited-liability cover. The move doesn’t touch the protocol, UNI, or voting mechanics—it just lets governance sign contracts, hire providers, and handle taxes without centralizing control. If approved, governance would ratify DUNI’s Association Agreement, name the Foundation a procedural-only Ministerial Agent, and appoint Cowrie (with David Kerr) to run tax and compliance. The ask includes $16.5M worth of UNI for legal/tax budgets to a DUNI wallet and $75k in UNI for Cowrie; UF would liquidate as needed and work to settle any past U.S. tax obligations (expected to be under $10M). Snapshot is targeted for late August, with an on-chain vote to follow.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Uniswap’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Hop’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1208466459312001169) - on 20.8 at 17:00.


## **Polygon**


### **Planned Maintenance Notification: Polygon Portal**

Harry Rook [announced](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/planned-maintenance-notification-polygon-portal/21213) planned maintenance to upgrade the Polygon Portal for a native USDT0 deployment on Polygon PoS. Expect roughly a six-hour window where new USDT bridge inits are paused; legacy USDT exits remain valid, and all other bridge functions stay live. No action is needed from users. Apps may see the token labeled “USDT0” post-cutover and can update UI labels if they’ve hard-coded “USDT.”

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Polygon’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**


## **Active Votes**

[Bitcoin Staking on Starknet Vote](https://governance.starknet.io/voting-proposals/10) - ends on August 21 at 08:00 UTC.

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Starknet’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


### **Community Leadership Incentivization H2 2025**

Anedi [posted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/community-leadership-incentivization-h2-2025/1390?u=manugotsuka) to fund Everclear’s Community Leader sub-DAO for the second half of the year. The plan keeps two Community Leaders on fixed pay, rolls forward leftover funds from prior cycles, and asks only for permission to use the existing CLEAR—no new draw from the treasury. Focus areas include growing the @EverclearIntern account with educational/memetic content, tight Discord/Telegram moderation and Intercom support, and a one-time payment for the DefiLlama bridge-volume adapter built with Everclear Labs. Compensation can be tuned monthly, buffers cover basic ops and tooling, and if the proposal doesn’t pass, remaining tokens go back to the DAO.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Everclear’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Wormhole’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**


### **Deploy LSK to Base and deploy liquidity to Aerodrome using Arrakis.**

Lisk Team [posted](https://forum.lisk.com/t/deploy-lsk-to-base-and-deploy-liquidity-to-aerodrome-using-arrakis/560?u=manugotsuka) a funding proposal to launch LSK on Base and seed a WETH/LSK concentrated pool on Aerodrome via Arrakis Pro. The Treasury Council (5-of-8 Superchain Safe) would deposit 1.5M LSK into an Arrakis-managed vault at the 0.27% fee tier (C200), actively bootstrapping toward a 50/50 inventory to deepen liquidity and cut price impact. Liquidity is kept on a single venue (no split) to maximize depth; ETH is chosen as the pair leg to reduce IL and improve routing. The aim is broader retail access through Base (with a potential Coinbase-listing upside), while reusing the Arrakis setup already performing on Ethereum. No additional compensation is requested for council members.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Lisk’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**


## Active Votes

**Onchain**

[ZKsync Security Council v2 Funding](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/38542076628472360665761284306860773162167153028104855759973536253827423667325?govId=eip155:324:0xb83FF6501214ddF40C91C9565d095400f3F45746) - ends on August 18 at 23:41 UTC.

[ZKsync Guardians Funding 2024-2026](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/14920227315823844313255249182525601975564035647349569740836448589354658768084?govId=eip155:324:0xb83FF6501214ddF40C91C9565d095400f3F45746) - ends on August 27 at 13:10 UTC.


### **[ZIP-12] V29 Interop Messaging & Fast Finality Upgrade**

StanislavBreadless [posted a draft ZIP](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-12-v29-interop-messaging-fast-finality-upgrade/745?u=manugotsuka) to upgrade ZKsync to V29, introducing Interop Messaging and Fast Finality. Interop Messaging lets ZK Chains connected to ZK Gateway exchange trustless messages by committing each chain’s batch root into a shared global tree, emitting a NewInteropRoot, and enabling Merkle-proof verification against L2InteropRootStorage. Fast Finality publishes rolling execution pre-commitments on L1 so exchanges and partners can validate outcomes earlier; mismatches are reverted during full commitment, with the Security Council holding revert authority. The release refactors Bridgehub linkage into a new ChainAssetHandler and makes ValidatorTimelock upgradeable with distinct roles for commit/prove/execute/revert. Backwards compatibility is maintained, but chains must upgrade (and reinstall validator permissions) to use interop and fast finality; a new validatorTimelockPostV29() getter exposes the updated timelock. Matter Labs notes external audits (OpenZeppelin) were completed and findings addressed, with the report link forthcoming.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to ZkSync’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Scroll**


### **Proposal: Execution Oversight Council (EOC) Formation**

Eugene (with Kene_StableLab and Jamilya) [posted a proposal](https://forum.scroll.io/t/proposal-execution-oversight-council-eoc-formation/1070) to create a three-seat Execution Oversight Council for Scroll DAO to track delivery across all funded proposals and service providers for six months. Budget: 500,000 SCR—~$90k (in SCR) for comp ($5k/mo per member at ~20h/week) and ~240k SCR reserved for tools/reports/providers, with any unused funds returned. The EOC would maintain a unified tracking DB, run monthly check-ins, set KPIs (with a priority on treasury-management oversight), perform QA spot checks, publish monthly status dashboards and deeper quarterly reviews, and host weekly public accountability calls.


### **Proposal: Scroll DAO Timelock Test**

Eugene [posted an operations proposal](https://forum.scroll.io/t/proposal-scroll-dao-timelock-test/1073) to dry-run the DAO timelock: send 1 SCR from the treasury into the timelock, then execute an on-chain Agora proposal on Sept 1 to route it back—verifying addresses and flow end-to-end. There’s no cost or new tooling; Foundation governance/ops handles execution and post confirmation. Success is binary: 1 SCR funded pre-Sept 1, proposal included in the Sept 1 cycle, and the 1 SCR lands back in the treasury—clearing the path to shift more budget into timelock-based execution and reduce manual ops.


### **Proposal: Governance Council (GC) Formation**

Eugene [posted a proposal](https://forum.scroll.io/t/proposal-governance-council-gc-formation/1071?u=manugotsuka) to stand up a 3-member Governance Council (2 Foundation reps + 1 delegate/governance pro) for 6 months at ~10 hrs/week. Budget: 1.5M SCR total—~60k SCR for member stipends (10k SCR/mo) and the rest for grants, tooling, and experiments. Mandate: draft a governance research & experimentation roadmap (and decentralization roadmap with the Foundation team), run RFPs, fund pilots, and report bi-weekly with a mid-term summary. Approvals: 2/3 for spends &lt;25% of budget, 3/3 for >25%, then a 3-business-day DAO veto window. Targets include a published roadmap and charter, at least 3 experiments, support for one research project, bi-monthly forum updates, one in-depth report, and a renewal proposal.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Scroll’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](https://meet.google.com/nug-uygx-hbd) - on 20.8 at 11:30.

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call (#2)](https://meet.google.com/pcm-nxzr-rig) - on 20.8 at 17:00.

[Toward a Role-Based Org Chart for Scroll (2)](https://meet.google.com/yie-jces-zor) - on 14.8 at 17:30.
