---
  title: "Governance Review #33"
  description: "Another week full of governance news from the DAOs we’re active participants of."
  publishedOn: "2024-12-10"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---


## **Optimism**

The first onchain treasury transfer is set to take place on December 10. Although a test transaction, it’s a step toward further decentralization of the Collective.


## **Active Votes**

[Onchain Treasury Transfer Test](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/69771922871899678295641228800065180752005123065337241545846173169617313270459) – ends on December 12 at 10:38 UTC


### **Code of Conduct Council Dissolution Proposal**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/code-of-conduct-council-dissolution-proposal/9321) proposing the dissolution of the Code of Conduct Council. As originally outlined in the Operating Manual, a persistent Council is expected to continue into the next Season unless a Dissolution proposal is approved.

The proposal to dissolve the CoC doesn’t have to do with its members but more so with its structure and the lessons learned from the experiment during the last 2 seasons. The Foundation seeks to decentralize the enforcement of the Code of Conduct over multiple different parties for various reasons outlined in the post.


### **Season 7 Anticapture Commission Charter Amendment**

Web3magnetic, [published a proposal](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-anticapture-commission-charter-amendment/9354) on behalf of the Anticapture Commission Charter, which seeks the renewal of the charter for Season 7. The ACC doesn’t have an operating budget, but if approved, the proposal will delegate 10M OP from the treasury to the Commission’s multisig.


### **Special Voting Cycle Roundup #31a**

Optimism Foundation [published a roundup](https://gov.optimism.io/t/special-voting-cycle-roundup-31a/9331) for the special voting cycle #31a, which will run until December 18th. Voting will begin on December 12th and will include the proposals for:



* The Code of Conduct Council Dissolution
* Holocene Network Upgrade
* Season 7: Intent
* Developer Advisory Board Budget
* Milestones and Metrics Council Operating Budget
* Anticapture Commission Charter Amendment


### **Optimism Budgets Discussion Calls**

We (L2BEAT) facilitated two calls to discuss the budget proposals for Season 7 for the different councils and boards. Specifically, we discussed the budget proposals for:



* [Grants Council Operations](https://gov.optimism.io/t/grants-council-operating-budget-s7-request-for-feedback/9357)
* [Milestones and Metrics Operations](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-milestones-and-metrics-council-operating-budget/9353)
* [Security Council](https://gov.optimism.io/t/security-council-operating-budget-season-7/9358)
* [Developer Advisory Board](https://gov.optimism.io/t/developer-advisory-board-season-7-operating-budget/9350)

The calls were recorded, and you can find the recordings and transcripts [here](https://gov.optimism.io/t/optimism-budgets-discussion-calls/9369/1).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the upcoming Season 7 with other delegates and interested parties. We’re also looking to chat with builders on Optimism, or builders of other chains in the Superchain.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) on 11.12 at 17:30


## **Arbitrum**

This week’s headline for Arbitrum DAO are the elections for the members of the ARDC v2.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Arbitrum Hackathon Builder Continuation Program](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/108658450973990931334575713480652794742647878863726354508911679874665321261959?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on December 19 at 19:16

[Treasury Management V1.2](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/111105159609719390908725919603971316574753860587890014819515615630412225940809?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on December 20 at 05:51

**Temp-check**

[Arbitrum D.A.O. Domain Allocator Offerings) Grant Program - Season 3](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x052d7e9872192f46bfb4e0a2aabd07035d0842811ca1c82d654307b5d96e2e25) – ends on December 12 at 16:00

[Arbitrum Onboarding V2: A Governance Bootcamp](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xb5bbd23c20a480dc46f750112b6cc8f1d1825e40cdd0fc12f4ac3642b18f6740) – ends on December 12 at 16:00

[ARDC (V2) Supervisory Council Election](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x86726ba9eb29df278cc5597290980f494329f524b0180759009a52ef11d4ca1f) – ends on December 12 at 16:06

[ARDC (V2) Research Election](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xfbc7855075da7b93d7c95354e9b2adf848099562afcafa42fa7b7f6fa6e7804b) – ends on December 12 at 16:36

[ARDC (V2) Risk Election](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x4959a33604c4fb590dc4326845bd011f7c202bcd6e43c2acc458548c644a567b) – ends on December 12 at 16:47


### **ARB’s Wake-Up Call: A Critical Pivot is Necessary**

Momir from IOSG [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbs-wake-up-call-a-critical-pivot-is-necessary/27706) seeking to discuss the landscape of liquidity incentives and their role in Arbitrum going forward. Although not coming up with a specific proposal, IOSG expresses its view on what the problem with incentive programs has been, and it proposes a different direction. We encourage you to read the entire post to form a better understanding of their position, which can help inform your views on liquidity incentive programs going forward.


### **[RFC] Directional Temperature Check on Arbitrum Ventures Setup**

ArbitrumVentures [published an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/directional-temperature-check-on-arbitrum-ventures-setup/27668) as one of the deliverables from the AVI pilot that seeks to propose the execution plan for the setup of Arbitrum Ventures, a Multistrategy Evergreen Ecosystem Investment Fund with an operational budget of $1m - $1.5m. More specifically, the goal of the proposal is to secure funding for the set-up and the phased rollout of the Arbitrum Ventures fund.


### **[RFC] Proposal for Maintenance and Continuous Enhancement of ArbitrumHub to Meet the Evolving Needs of the Arbitrum Ecosystem and DAO**

0x_Buidler [submitted a revised proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-proposal-for-maintenance-and-continuous-enhancement-of-arbitrumhub-to-meet-the-evolving-needs-of-the-arbitrum-ecosystem-and-dao/27667) for the Arbitrum Hub (previous proposal [here](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-arbitrumhub-evolution-the-next-step-in-streamlining-information-access-and-raising-awareness-for-arbitrum-dao/24857)), after the first proposal didn’t pass temp-check. The amended proposal has incorporated the feedback received from delegates and has a more detailed budget breakdown and specific KPIs to measure the Hub’s success. The new proposal requests a total of $417,600 for a year to create and maintain the Arbitrum Hub.


### **[RFC] Grant Progress Tracking Platform**

EmmanuelO [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/grant-progress-tracking-platform/27774) that outlines the development of a Grant Progress Tracking Dashboard, designed to provide the community with a transparent, user-friendly platform for monitoring the progress of funded proposals. The proposal requests a total of $3,500  for the development of the dashboard over a timeframe of 4 weeks.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re keen to discuss all ongoing initiatives and active proposals in Arbitrum. This week in particular, we’re interested in hearing from applicants to the ARDC, since the elections end in 3 days.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Arbitrum Incentives Working Group](meet.google.com/jqp-ppsq-xnq) on 11.12 at 17:00

[EventHorizon:  Updates and working session for the Event Horizon delegation](meet.google.com/zqe-mupt-ppv) on 11.12 at 18:00

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 12.12 at 15:00


## **Uniswap**

Uniswap Treasury Working Group released an in-depth report on the DAO’s treasury, and the Security Alliance submitted a proposal for Uniswap to adopt the SEAL ‘Safe Harbor’ agreement.


### **Uniswap Treasury Report**

AbdullahUmar, [published an in-depth report](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-treasury-report/24978) on behalf of the Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG) of the DAO’s treasury and how it may perceived and mobilized. You can [read the entire report](https://uniswap-governance.notion.site/Mobilizing-a-DAO-s-Treasury-15151e2102a380738364e97c0df373f3), or use the [GPT the group has created](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-674238c5b08c8191a7b9bd85222bbfd3-utwg-dao-treasury-management-agent) for quick answers to your questions. 

Based on their findings, the UTWG has provided the DAO with a series of suggestions as to how the treasury can be mobilized. The recommendations include:



* Forming an oversight committee to gather and consolidate information and KPIs of the various initiatives of the DAO.
* Adopt an accounting framework that properly reflects and discounts the value of unissued UNI tokens held in the treasury.
* Focus the mobilization on two ‘north stars’ objectives: growth and sustainability.
* Producing an investment policy statement.
* Creating a stability fund and allocating assets to it to provide stable assets to cover operational expenses.

 


### **[RFC] - Adopt The SEAL Safe Harbor Agreement**

Dickson [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-adopt-the-seal-safe-harbor-agreement/24971) proposing the DAO adopt the SEAL ([Security Alliance](https://securityalliance.org/)) Whitehat Safe Harbor Agreement (“Safe Harbor Agreement”). By adopting Safe Harbor, Uniswap improves the security of its on-chain assets by allowing whitehats to intervene during active exploits to save protocol funds.

In the event of an exploit, if the DAO adopts the agreement, whitehat hackers will attempt to use the exploit to rescue funds with the intent of returning them to the DAO. For that service, SEAL requests that they receive 10% of the rescued funds as a bounty, with a USD cap of $2,25M. There’s no other overhead for the DAO (i.e retainer costs).


### **[RFC] Metal L2: Bridging TradFi and DeFi Through Uniswap V3**

Metal L2, a banking-focused layer 2 built on Optimism Superchain, [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-metal-l2-bridging-tradfi-and-defi-through-uniswap-v3/24981/1) requesting the recognition of its Uniswap V3 deployment as canonical as well as an onboarding package of $250,000 worth of UNI for liquidity incentives for 3 months, and the cost for Angle Merkl integration ($20,000).

The Metal DAO has already demonstrated its commitment by approving:



* 250,000 MTL tokens for liquidity bootstrapping across key trading pairs @ $1.63 USD
* 250,000 MTL tokens for incentive programs @ $1.63 USD
* Full integration costs including Oku’s deployment and maintenance fees

We remind you that recognizing the v3 deployments as canonical is optimistically approved. Therefore, delegates are only called to decide whether to vote in favor of the onboarding package.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the SEAL proposal further as we find it very interesting and without any real overhead or risk for the DAO. We’d be curious to hear everyone else’s opinion.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Governance Community Call](meet.google.com/fuj-mbkg-vdu) on 10.12 at 15:00


## **Hop**

Apart from applications to Hop’s Grant Program, there has been only 1 proposal to the DAO as of late.


### **[Retroactive Grant Request] - Arbitrum LTIPP Grant**

Bob-Rossi [submitted an RFC](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/retroactive-grant-request-arbitrum-ltipp-grant/1292) in which he seeks a retroactive grant for the work put into applying for and managing the 500,000 ARB grant from Arbitrum’s LTIPP program. The requested amount is ~$45,000 (paid in HOP) to be distributed between Bob-Rossi, Francom, Shogun, and 0xLevi for their contributions to managing the LTIPP grant.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the retroactive grant request from the LTIPP management team but also the various proposals that have been submitted to the Grants Council so far.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1306317954723483718) on 11.12 at 18:00


## **Polygon**


### **PIP 52: Execution Derived Randomness for Producer Selection**

Raneet from PolygonLabs [published a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-52-execution-derived-randomness-for-producer-selection/20193) that proposes changes to the parameters used in bor producer selection algorithm in Heimdall. The proposed upgrade is not backward compatible and, hence, will require a hard fork of the Heimdall network.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Polygon’s governance you believe we should be aware of or involved with, please let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There haven’t been any new proposals or notable discussions in Starknet’s governance over the past 2 weeks. If you think we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

There are two new proposals in the DAO, and a handful more that are ongoing and are expected to go to a vote in the near future.


### **[RFC] DAO Treasury and Arrakis Vaults Migration**

Nadjana from Everclear Foundation [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-dao-treasury-and-arrakis-vaults-migration/1342) that outlines the steps to upgrade NEXT tokens in the DAO treasury and in the mainnet Arrakis vault to CLEAR. The RFC also proposes that the DAO close the Arbitrum Arrakis vault due to low utilization and allocate funds from it for Season 1 staking rewards.

The Arrakis vault on Arbitrum currently has 78 ETH in it, which, if the proposal passes, will be withdrawn and allocated to a DAO-owned multisig that manages incentives funds for vbCLEAR Season 1.


### **[RFC] Everclear DAO Code of Conduct**

SEEDGov [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-dao-code-of-conduct/1341) that seeks to introduce a Code of Conduct for Everclear DAO delegates and community members to create a respectful and productive governance environment alongside additional improvements to the DAO’s operational standards. Some of the proposed standard operations include:



* Minimum discussion period of a week for a proposal
* Minimum application period of 14 days for any sort of application process
* Voting schedule to make voting more predictable
* DAO Holiday Break from December 20th to January 6th.


### **Everclear Governance Task Force - Communication Thread**

SEEDGov, the program manager for Everclear’s Governance Task Force, [published an update](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-governance-task-force-communication-thread/1251/13) on the GTF’s activities over the past 2 weeks.


### **Everclear DAO Financial Updates from DAOplomats**

DAOPlomats, the GTF's Treasury Officer, [published their monthly report](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-dao-financial-updates-from-daoplomats/1254/4) on the state of the DAO’s treasury.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re curious to hear other delegates’ thoughts on the proposed Code of Conduct as well as the proposed operations to be standardized. Furthermore, we’re interested in discussing the proposed sunsetting of the Arrakis Arbitrum vault.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

There have been no new proposals or notable discussions in Wormhole other than the upcoming community call on December 13th


### **Community Call: December 13**

The [next Wormhole Community Call](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/community-call-december-13-12-00-pm-est/350) will be scheduled for December 13 at 5:00 PM UTC. The agenda will include discussing the code of conduct, some educational updates from WH contributors, further brainstorming over how to leverage the well-networked delegate pool for WH protocol expansion and adoption, and updates on Multigov. You can [join the call here](https://meet.google.com/arr-uupt-xvq).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other Wormhole delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Wormhole yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Community Call](https://meet.google.com/arr-uupt-xvq) on 13.12 at 17:00


## **Lisk**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Lisk’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last two weeks. That said, we’re interested in discussing with other Lisk delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Lisk yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **ZKsync**

Although a relatively new DAO, ZKsync is already very active, with two proposals onchain, and new initiatives being actively discussed.


## Active Votes

[[ZIP-002] Reduce the execution delay from 21 hours to 3 hours](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/26668700835266663714039744560208859829224989416465690918246196287077853242?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) – ends on December 10 at 23:51 UTC

[[ZIP-003] Resubmission of Protocol Defense](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/39897055470405054808751466940888279812739313934036970931300785151980460250983?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) – ends on December 23 at 16:52 UTC


### **[RFC] Adopt The SEAL Safe Harbor Agreement**

Samczsun [submitted a proposal](https://forum.zknation.io/t/adopt-the-seal-safe-harbor-agreement/354) on behalf of the Security Alliance (SEAL) proposing that ZKsync adopt the Whitehat Safe Harbor Agreement, equipping the DAO with a rapid response mechanism for active exploits, enabling whitehats to step in effectively when needed most. In the event of an exploit, whitehats would use the exploit to rescue funds while keeping 10% of the funds rescued as a bounty, with a maximum cap of $1,000,000.


### **Update on ZIP-1: Decision to Resubmit Proposal Following Tooling Issue**

ZKsync’s Security Council [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/update-on-zip-1-decision-to-resubmit-proposal-following-tooling-issue/368/1) to share an update regarding ZIP-1, “Protocol Defense,” and the process that led to the Council's recommendation that ZIP-1 be resubmitted. The issue affected the encoding of the upgrade message sent from L2 (ZKsync Era) to L1, causing it to arrive in an unexpected format. As a result, the proposal has stalled and cannot be executed on L1 as planned.


### **[Open Discussion] Delegate Incentives**

Tekr0x.eth [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/open-discussion-delegate-incentives/333) to start a discussion around the topic of delegate incentives and rewards. He asked delegates input on three main questions:



1. Do you support the idea of a delegate incentive program for ZK Nation?
2. What types of programs do you prefer? (monthly stipend, retro rewards,…)
3. Are you or your organization interested in working on a proposal for this?

We encourage you to participate in the discussion and express your views.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Delegate incentives is a topic that we’ve seen in multiple DAOs, and we’re interested in discussing how we can use all the existing programs to inform the design of a new one.

**When/where to catch us:**

Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for ZKsync yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Standing ZKsync Delegate Call](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha) on 10.12 at 16:30


## **Scroll**

Scroll has been going through a co-creation cycle with collaborative workshops to create proposals that are soon be ready to go to a vote.


### **The Role of Deliberation at Scroll DAO**

Eugene, the governance lead at Scroll Foundation, [published a post](https://forum.scroll.io/t/the-role-of-deliberation-at-scroll-dao/323/1) discussing the idea of doing a focused deliberative exercise to refine the strategy for the DAO, following the discussion at Scroll’s call #14 (find the [recording here](https://forum.scroll.io/t/recordings-of-ccc-related-calls/293)).


### **Co-Creation Cycle (CCC) Check-In Post**

Eugene, the governance lead at Scroll Foundation, [published a recap](https://forum.scroll.io/t/co-creation-cycle-ccc-check-in-post/313) of the Co-Creation Cycle (CCC) and gave a heads-up about its future. The CCC started on October 28th with a kickoff call, and then context was set for some of the relevant activities that had taken place on Scroll. Then, ideas were crowdsourced via DeForm and a Miro board, which were then used to populate two Polis reports:

[Growth and Community Polis Report](https://pol.is/report/r5apwkphpuxxhf9wnfemj)

[Governance Polis Report](https://pol.is/report/r4szumjbd53k6cjnyepwt)

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

While we haven’t been able to participate in the co-creation cycle calls as much as we’d like to, we’re interested in discussing them further with participants and delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Scroll yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[#17 Reflection & Refining | Pre-Vote Check-In](meet.google.com/tfw-hfyz-qkp) on 11.12 at 12:30

[#18 Reflection & Refining | Pre-Voter Check-In](meet.google.com/tfw-hfyz-qkp) on 11.12 at 18:00