---
  title: "Governance Review #23"
  description: "We're back after a short break because of EthCC in Brussels. Catch up with what has happened in governance over the past 3 weeks!"
  publishedOn: "2024-07-23"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

With Season 6 in full swing after Mission Requests were voted on, the Optimism Foundation is gearing up and preparing for Retro Funding round 5 and setting the stage for the elections of Cohort A of the Security Council.


### **Retro Funding 5: OP Stack - round details**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-5-op-stack-round-details/8612) announcing the details of Retroactive Public Goods Funding (Retro Funding) 5, which will reward contributors to the OP Stack, including core Ethereum infrastructure that supports or underpins the OP Stack, advancements in OP Stack research and development, and tooling which supports its accessibility and usability.

Applications for Retro Funding 5 will begin on the 15th of August and run for 2 weeks, while the results are set to come out on October 3rd.


### **Season 6: Security Council Elections - Cohort A**

Optimism Foundation [announced](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-6-security-council-elections-cohort-a/8587) that they will be holding elections for Cohort A of the Security Council. The first election for Cohort A will take place during Voting Cycle #26, which starts on August 22nd and runs for a week. Candidates can post their nominations [in this thread](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-6-security-council-nomination-thread-cohort-a/8588).


### **Retro Funding 5: Expert voting experiment**

Optimism Foundation [announced an experiment](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-5-expert-voting-experiment/8613) for the voting design during Retro Funding 5. The hypothesis that round 5 aims to test is if experts make better OP allocation decisions on OP Stack contributions than non-experts since understanding the OP Stack’s different components requires a high degree of knowledge.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Establishing an elected security council is a very important step towards decentralizing the Optimism Collective, and we are very interested in discussing it with nominees and other delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

* [Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) on 24.7 at 7:30 pm


## **Arbitrum**

Arbitrum DAO keeps pushing forward in all directions, with the most prevalent discussions right now being the GCP council elections, the proposal by Entropy Advisors, and the discussion around different venture initiatives such as AVI and M&A.


### **Active Votes**

**On-Chain**

[Pilot Phase: Arbitrum Ventures Initiative](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/16862129143470948068395175122563617380780349421262247459634070073165514405758) - ends on July 26 at 09:57 UTC

**Temp Check**

[Pilot for a Questbook Jumpstart fund for problem definition and DAO improvement](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xd096c5d610d4455bcae4bff719d18345939c5d6b20d56c6a1f37d0247ad10f71) - ends on uly 22 at 22:59 UTC.

[Furucombo's Misuse of Funds](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x07bea6e32d32b4d3ed20faec6950c3546e2319bc2497716c53ee05995d4a00eb) - ends on July 26 at 13:45 UTC

[Gaming Catalyst Program (GCP) Council Voting](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xfd4085bda4daaa79445627ac2886656cdc1ef90cfbe0e8b82f955773cbfd4290) - ends on August 1 at 12:00 UTC

[Entropy Advisors: Exclusively Working With Arbitrum DAO](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x3161a3d9486ab7b6099be9fda16d6498f329249c0ad33b0f75090f2ceb557789) - ends on August 1 at 18:48 UTC


### **Potential Misuse of Funds - Furucombo**

The Arbitrum Foundation published a post to notify the DAO that Furucombo seems to have misused 59,500 ARB from their STIP allocation. Following requests by the Foundation and StableLabs for Furucombo to return the funds, they haven’t returned any ARB despite agreeing to do so. As a result, the Foundation has created a [Snapshot poll](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x07bea6e32d32b4d3ed20faec6950c3546e2319bc2497716c53ee05995d4a00eb) to enable delegates to vote on whether or not they want to ban Furucombo from Arbitrum’s DAO.


### **[RFC] Incentives Detox Proposal**

We (L2BEAT) [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-incentives-detox-proposal/25849) proposing a three-month pause after the current incentives programs conclude on September 17th. We want to use the 3-month pause to facilitate a working group to analyze all the data we’ve collected from incentive programs so far and design a perpetual incentive program based on the learnings. This proposal doesn’t come at any cost or operational overhead to the DAO and it’s mostly a social consensus.


### **[RFC] Strategic Treasury Management on Arbitrum**

Karpatkey and Aera [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/strategic-treasury-management-on-arbitrum/25301) proposing the creation of Arbitrum Strategic Treasury Management Group and DAO Oversight Committee. The proposal starts with Strategic Treasury Management of 250M ARB assets under management, allowing the Group to manage ~2 years of runway. The proposal is extensive and very comprehensive, so we’d urge everyone to read it to understand it better.


### **[RFC] Diversification and Strategic Treasury Management on Arbitrum**

Avantgarde [has submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/diversification-and-strategic-treasury-management-on-arbitrum/25579) complimentary to the one submitted by Karpatkey and Aera around diversification and treasury management of Arbitrum DAO’s treasury. This proposal, similar to the one by Karpatkey and Aera, is very comprehensive and worth reading to understand fully.


### **[RFC] Injection of funding to the Arbitrum Research and Development Collective**

ImmutableLawyer [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-constitutional-injection-of-funding-to-the-arbitrum-research-and-development-collective/25676) that requests 1,200,000 ARB to be injected into the multisig responsible for compensating the members of the ARDC. The reason for the requested funds is that although the multisig was holding ARB, the compensation of the ARDC members was denominated in USD. With the recent negative price action of ARB, the multisig doesn’t hold enough ARB to cover the USD-denominated costs for the ARDC for the last 2 months of the engagement.


### **[RFC] ArbitrumDAO Off-site**

Danielo [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrumdao-off-site/25660) that proposes organizing a dedicated Arbitrum DAO 2-day off-site event during DevCon in Thailand in November. The focus of the off-site event is to gather high-context, expert, and senior participants for strategic alignment and problem-solving sessions.

The total ballpark cost for the proposal is $75,000-125,000 to cover event planning and coordination, travel and accommodation for the attendees, workshop facilitation, and post-event follow-ups.


### **[ARDC] Recent Deliverables**

The Arbitrum Research and Development Collective (ARDC) has worked on and published the following:

* [ETH Staking Options and Risks for the DAO](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/eth-staking-options-and-risks-for-the-dao/25762)
* [Event Horizon Franchiser Contract Audit](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/event-horizon-franchiser-contract-audit/25738/1)
* [STIP Analysis (ARDC Risk Deliverables) | Insights & Key Findings](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/stip-analysis-ardc-risk-deliverables-insights-key-findings/25515)
* [Arbitrum DAO Treasury Research (ARDC Research Deliverables)](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-dao-treasury-research-ardc-research-deliverables/25427)
* [STIP Retroactive Analysis – Spot DEX TVL](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/stip-analysis-ardc-research-deliverables/23438/6)


### **Fractal ID Hack - Call for New KYC/KYB Service Provider Nominations**

Following a data leak of Fractal ID(KYC/KYB provider for the Arbitrum Foundation), [mcfly published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/fractal-id-hack-call-for-new-kyc-kyb-service-provider-nominations/25686) calling for immediate action toward finding a new KYC/KYB service provider to use through a procurement process. \
Stonecoldpat from Arbitrum Foundation [commented](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/fractal-id-hack-call-for-new-kyc-kyb-service-provider-nominations/25686/3) that they (the Foundation) are also actively looking to onboard alternative compliance providers.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

After discussing with many people in Brussels during EthCC, we’re keen to go back to the drawing board regarding how we approach initiatives as a DAO. Right now, there doesn’t seem to be any overarching ‘mandate’ from the DAO towards a direction before a proposal spawns out of nowhere, hoping to tackle something that might have never been discussed in the context of the DAO. We had an idea of how we could change this kind of approach, but we’d be interested in discussing it further with other delegates and interested parties.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

* [GCP Council Elections AMA - Slot 1](meet.google.com/qba-jswk-xof) on 24.7 at 4:00 pm
* [Arbitrum Open Governance Call #17](meet.google.com/ouo-uskg-niq) ON 24.7 at 2:00 pm
* [ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 25.7 at 2:00 pm
* [GCP Open Office - Weekly](meet.google.com/hjf-hrfg-gxg) on 25.7 at 4:00 pm
* [Social Media Fellowship](meet.google.com/ybo-huqw-jnr) on 25.7 at 5:00 pm
* [Arbitrum DAO Onboarding](meet.google.com/mrq-sitk-mfu) on 25.7 at 10:00 pm


## **Uniswap**

Uniswap continues working towards cementing itself in different Ethereum L2s and increasing its market share in places where it is not the dominant player.


### **Active Votes**

**Temp Check**

[Uniswap Onboarding Package - Gnosis Chain](https://snapshot.org/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0xc2eed288ba61241dd86928eff15b7c8c9622168fc4b435657f58dda8ce285d13) - ends on July 27 at 18:30 UTC.


### **[RFC] Enhancing Uniswap Presence on Ethereum Layer-2s**

0xSocratic from DapDap [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/enhancing-uniswap-presence-on-ethereum-layer-2s/24189/1) that proposes to leverage their composable front-end to build an alternative Uniswap frontend and to collaborate with related DeFi projects to improve Uniswap’s market share, especially on emerging Ethereum L2s, or L2s where Uniswap is not the dominant DEX. The projected costs come at a total of 5,000 UNI for the development, deployment, and maintenance for 1 year per network and 5,000 UNI for user and business engagement strategies per network.


### **Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG) Interim Update**

AbdullahUmar [published an update](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-treasury-working-group-utwg-interim-update/24292) on behalf of the Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG) to share progress on their work and provide visibility into some of the topics that they are actively exploring. They’re also calling delegates and treasury/asset managers to action and asking them to complete a quick survey.


* If you are a delegate, token holder, or general community member, please share your opinion using the following link (takes 3-4 minutes): [Mobilizing a DAO’s Treasury - General Survey](https://forms.gle/wKd6cKbkUDrZ4Um37).
* If you are a treasury or asset manager, please share your opinion using the following link (takes 3-4 minutes): [Mobilizing a DAO’s Treasury - for Treasury Managers](https://forms.gle/hLVKKb9WXPoougWi9).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing DapDap's proposal with other delegates and hearing the community’s opinion about it.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Hop over the last week. If you think we have missed something important, please let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all things Hop and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events**



* [Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1257596549601562674) on 24.7 at 6:00 pm


## **Polygon**

Polygon plans to migrate from MATIC to POL as the native gas and staking token on September 4th.


### **MATIC -> POL: Migration Coming September 4th**

H_Rooks, the Governance Lead at Polygon Labs, [announced](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/matic-pol-migration-coming-september-4th/18474) that on September 4th, POL will be replacing MATIC as the native gas and staking token for the Polygon PoS network.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re happy to discuss anything in Polygon that you think we should be aware of or involved with.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**



* [Polygon Protocol Governance Call](meet.google.com/kez-vsmk-kng) on 25.7 at 3:00 pm


## **Starknet**

Starknet makes the first step towards introducing staking.


### **SNIP 18: Staking’s First Stage on Starknet**

Nathan Granit from Starkware [submitted an SNIP](https://community.starknet.io/t/snip-18-staking-s-first-stage-on-starknet/114334) that seeks to introduce the first stage of staking. This SNIP aims for the first staking stage to be live on Starknet mainnet in Q4 2024, featuring a permissionless on-chain staking protocol and stake delegation. Staking would be enabled for stakers of an X amount of $STRK, where X is between 10k–100k $STRK. The proposal offers a comprehensive breakdown of the proposed approach to staking, and we’d suggest reading it to understand how it will work.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re very interested in discussing staking with other delegates or interested parties, especially stake delegation. If you have any thoughts to share, we’d like to hear them.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


### **Active Votes**

(Concluded) [Governance Task Force - Funding requirement](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x79c6a504808e29f9c31c17a12e8d8748a0201091ffaf22b2093cf2a60ef74a6f) - ended on July 22 at 5:12 pm UTC.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were unaware of any significant governance-related news in Everclear over the last week. If you think we have missed something important, please let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all things Everclear and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

* [Everclear Delegates Call](meet.google.com/vqi-tdhd-aaq) on 26.7 at 3:00 pm