---
  title: "Governance Review #22"
  description: "Read about Optimism's Mission Requests, ARB staking, Hop Grants Committee and more."
  publishedOn: "2024-07-02"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

With EthCC right around the corner, things in governance are slower than usual but still kicking! L2BEAT’s governance team will be in Brussels from July 4th all the way to the 13th, so please make sure to reach out if you’d like to meet in person!


## **Optimism**

Season 6 has officially begun! Mission Requests are starting to come in, and the first Grant applications will begin on July 18th. At the same time, while Retro Funding 4 hasn’t concluded, the Foundation is already working toward Retro Funding 5 and experimenting with changes to Citizenship.


### **Ratification of Profit Definition for Round 4**

Following a deliberative process within the Citizen’s House, the [proposed definition of ‘Profit’ for Round 4 is as follows](https://gov.optimism.io/t/ratification-of-profit-definition-for-round-4/8312):

Impact - ((10% * Token House Growth Grants) + (45% * Token House Builders Grants) + (25% * Foundation Grants)) = Award in OP

Badgeholders were called to ratify the aforementioned definition or choose to vote against it and fall back to the original ‘Impact=profit’ definition, which would translate to Impact = Award in OP. The vote concluded on June 26th, with the [majority voting against the ratification](https://snapshot.org/#/citizenshouse.eth/proposal/0xff9fcfd224f44cdcb6e8118cc5909e1376044d4e2640b2d671697b656b3211a1).


### **Retro Funding 5: Announcing Guest Voter Participation**

Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-5-announcing-guest-voter-participation/8393) announcing a new experiment to increase our collective knowledge around Citizenship selection mechanisms. In Retro Funding 5, a random sample of ~90 existing Citizens will be asked to participate in voting. In addition to these Citizens, ~30 Guest voters will participate in voting.

Guest voters are temporary participants able to vote in a single Retro Round. This new concept allows the Collective to experiment with different selection mechanisms without permanently changing Citizenship.

If you are a developer and you want to participate in voting for Retro Funding 5 you can [apply here](https://retrofunding.optimism.io/) by July 14th, 2024. Any developer can apply, and an algorithm will rank and select the top applicants based on their code contributions to relevant repositories. 


### **Season 6 Mission Requests**

With Season 6 beginning, [so have the Mission Requests](https://gov.optimism.io/tag/s6-mission-request). We remind you that the Token House creates Mission Requests outlining specific initiatives they want to see built for the Collectiv and any individual or team can apply for a Mission grant to fulfill a Request!

Token House members can submit a Mission Request by July 8th, while Grant applications open on July 18th and run every three weeks through December 11th.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

As a member of the Feedback Commission, we are interested in discussing different Mission Requests that fall under Intent #1 (Progress towards decentralization - governance), which we might end up sponsoring. If you have an idea for a Mission Request, do not hesitate to reach out to us!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**


* [Superchain Space](https://lu.ma/e/evt-vzbpJKfKy4GC5Ln?pk=g-0uSWV5Bq6MlHDpp) on 8.7 at 11:00 am


## **Arbitrum**


### **[RFC] Adjusting Arbitrum’s Gas Fees**

Entropy Advisors [published an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/adjusting-arbitrum-s-gas-fees/25002) that proposes to increase the amount of ETH flowing to the DAO’s treasury through two milestone proposals: The first, increase the L2 minimum base fee from 0.01 gwei to either 0.03 or 0.05 gwei, and to establish a working group tasked with creating a subsequent Milestone 2. The proposal is based on previous research that Entropy conducted [and published](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-arbitrum-gas-fees-sequencer-revenue/24730).

In the context of their proposal, Entropy has requested that Chaos Labs, as a member of the ARDC, [work with them to help backtes](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/request-for-support-chaos-labs-backtesting-and-suggestions-for-min-base-fee/24797)t the potential impact of network use at different minimum base fee parameters and provide suggestions based on their findings. 


### **[RFC] ARB Staking: Use Surplus Fees to Align Governance**

Frisson from Tally [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arb-staking-use-surplus-fees-to-align-governance/25084/1) in which they propose to implement an ARB staking mechanism that uses 50% of future surplus sequencer fees to improve the economic security of the DAO and incentivize more active participation in governance. 

ARB holders who stake and delegate their governance power to an active governance participant (either themselves or another entity) will receive surplus sequencer fees proportional to their share of the total ARB staked.

Tally is looking to start developing ARB Staking following a successful temp check and will only move to an on-chain vote when development is completed and the contracts have been audited. They plan on requesting 100,000 ARB as a retroactive payment to help cover development costs.


### **[RFC] Proposal to adopt Timeboost, a new transaction ordering policy**

The Arbitrum Foundation [published an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/constitutional-aip-proposal-to-adopt-timeboost-a-new-transaction-ordering-policy/25167) proposing the adoption of Timeboost, a new transaction ordering policy for Arbitrum One and Nova. Timeboost enables auctions for the rights to an express lane, giving the winner an advantage for transaction inclusion and potentially allowing them to capture arbitrage and backrunning opportunities. Proceeds from the auction are at the discretion of the Arbitrum DAO, with two main options outlined in this proposal: collecting bids in ETH and sending proceeds to the DAO’s treasury or collecting bids in ARB and burning the proceeds.


### **[RFC] Improving Predictability in Arbitrum DAO’s Operations**

Entropy Advisors [published an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/improving-predictability-in-arbitrum-dao-s-operations/25136) that aims to introduce guidelines for posting proposals to a vote; primarily to reduce delegate fatigue by ensuring that Snapshot and Tally votes are posted at a regular cadence with greater predictability.

The proposal serves more as a social agreement between delegates and less as enforceable guidelines. Additionally, Entropy Advisors is not requesting any changes to Arbitrum’s DAO Constitution or funds from the DAO to implement the predictable schedule.


### **Request for Proposal - The ADPC Security Services Panel and Procurement Framework**

Pablo, on behalf of the ADPC, [published an RFP](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/request-for-proposal-the-adpc-security-services-panel-and-procurement-framework/25031) inviting applications from security service providers and software auditors to become whitelisted Sellers on the ADPC’s new Security Services Panel. Service providers can apply until July 17th, and the review period will last until August 15th. 


### **Gaming Catalyst Program (GCP) Council Nominations**

The interim council for the GCP is looking for DAO nominations to fill the remaining 3/5 vacant spots. [Nominations ](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/nominated-gaming-venture-council-members/2507)started on June 21st, and the deadline to apply is July 7th. A voting period will begin on the 22nd of July.

Interested parties can [nominate themselves here](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/reply-here-with-gcp-council-nominations/25093), and you can find [more information about the council here](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/gcp-council-timelines-and-nomination-process/25076).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are some high-level organizational discussions taking place, and we’d like to get into them more with delegates and other interested governance participants. With EthCC right around the corner, we expect a lot of those discussions to take place in-person in Brussels and we hope to use the opportunity to move things forward.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**


* [ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 4.7 at 2:00 pm
* [GCP Open Office - Weekly](meet.google.com/hjf-hrfg-gxg) on 4.7 at 4:00 pm
* [Social Media Fellowship](meet.google.com/ybo-huqw-jnr) on 4.7 at 5:00 pm
* [Arbitrum DAO Onboarding](meet.google.com/mrq-sitk-mfu) on 4.7 at 10:00 pm
* [Arbitrum GovHack Brussels](https://lu.ma/e/evt-z5YT4ZhTgbclZyt?pk=g-vgyPCL7CejgFOKI) on 5.7 at 6:30 am
* [Arbitrum Delegate Day](https://lu.ma/5ubof808?pk=g-QADOiU5Pi60B9eX) on 9.7 at 6:00 am
* [Arbitrum Day](https://lu.ma/e/evt-mDTLYwr4cbFWwtn?pk=g-mt9cCMPjrB2nu0L) on 10.7 at 09:00 am
* [Governance is the Endgame - Sensemaking, Deliberation & Regulation in web3](https://lu.ma/e/evt-KGDy1yXL8ofIssB?pk=g-p8ujMrgCqP3Sf4w) on 12.7 at 07:00 am


## **Uniswap**

Uniswap recently [voted ](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/uniswap/proposal/65)to match the ARB incentives received from LTIPP on Arbitrum. Right now, there’s a discussion about retroactively deploying an onboarding package on Gnosis Chain.


### **[RFC] Onboarding Package for Gnosis Chain**

Karpatkey [has submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/onboarding-package-for-gnosis-chain/24166) that requests a retroactive onboarding package for Gnosis Chain. The proposed amount ranges from $250,000 to $1,000,000 (paid in UNI), and it will be used to bootstrap the Gnosis Chain deployment and incentivize use.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the potential synergies between Uniswap and Gnosis Chain, as well as hearing the opinions of other delegates on how to approach a retroactive onboarding package since all the onboarding packages so far were allocated alongside the deployment of Uniswap in the target chain.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

The hot topic in Hop’s DAO these days is the renewal of the Grants Committee. Nominations have begun, and the deadline to apply is July 3rd.


### **Grants Committee Election Nominations**

The [nomination period for the Hop Grants Committee](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grants-committee-election-nomination-thread/1200) has been extended to July 3rd. There are currently 4 applications, while the positions in the Grants Committee are 3. You can apply in the thread linked above if you are interested in the position and have relevant experience.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If you’re applying for the Hop Grants Committee, we’d like to hear from you and learn why you’re a good fit for the role.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**



* [Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1257596549601562674) on 10.7 at 5:00 pm


## **Polygon**


### **[RFC] PIP:-44: Upgrade cosmos-sdk in Heimdall**

Marcell033 from Polygon Labs [submitted an RFC](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-upgrade-cosmos-sdk-in-heimdall/17732) that proposes a refactoring of Heimdall’s fork of cosmos-SDK, which has been modified to support the needs of Polygon PoS. The proposed upgrade will upgrade Heimdall’s dependency to target version v0.50.x  instead of version v0.37.4.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Polygon you believe we should be involved with or aware of, please let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**


### **Starknet v0.13.2 and Roadmap Summer Update**

Ilia from StarkWare [published an update](https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-v0-13-2-and-roadmap-summer-update/114221) for Starknet’s 2024 roadmap, originally [shared in February](https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-2024-roadmap-plan-of-intent/113006).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Starknet you believe we should be involved with or aware of, please let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

The Governance Task Force has moved to elections, ‘The Rollup’ has published a halfway update on the progress of their proposal, and there’s a discussion to make $NEXT deflationary.


### **Active Votes**

[Add DAOPlomats as the Treasury Officer - Governance Task Force](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x79cabf8e3c949f41659c880489709e7c076a1d1760c065e7043cc3ef16ef08d2) – ends on July 3 at 14:00 UTC

[Add L2BEAT as the Operations Officer - Governance Task Force](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x8791bd21a65ab4f1c55e3101dc0b3068214b4614839a8579d9bd1f2ac958bc1c) – ends on July 3 at 14:09 UTC

[Add SEEDGov as the Program Manager - Governance Task Force](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0xe27ab285e1c82e071e912b9f5f0d53a9015c563a12a811ff52876ccffd6bcad5) – ends on July 3 at 14:12 UTC

[Executable CGP 16 - Community Leader Incentivization (May, June, and July 2024)](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x06b58c21fb9ef2a077697916e1014c9b7b9c11226fbf1e43588ed063f4da6e15) – ends on July 11 at 05:33 UTC


### **[RFC] Making the Everclear token deflationary**

Ruvik666 [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/making-the-everclear-token-deflationary/1224) to discuss the possibility of creating a deflationary token model for $NEXT. The post serves more as a discussion starter and less as a proposal with a concrete approach.


### **[Update] The Rollup Ecosystem Education Partnership Proposal**

Back in early March, the DAO voted in favor of an [ecosystem education partnership with ‘The Rollup,’](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0xdd4f77cdff542965435bf176acaa4b3fef24be43741837890d1ff7afa216f12f) with an effective start date of April 1st. Now, 3 months later, Andy from ‘The Rollup’ [published an update on the partnership's progress](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-the-rollup-ecosystem-education-partnership-proposal/1043/10), as promised in the original proposal.

Here are some of the high-level totals:



* 231,804 Newsletter impressions
* 129,064 X impressions
* 286 Youtube views
* 47 Website Banners and Newsletter Ad Placements
* 11 Organic Tweets and Clips
* 1 Livestream on Chain Abstraction for the Modular Era
* 1 Long-form podcast with Co-Founder Arjun

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We have nominated ourselves to be the Operations Officer for the Governance Task Force. If our nomination is ratified, we’d love to connect with stakeholders in Everclear’s DAO to discuss how we can streamline the DAO’s operations most effectively. 

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.