---
  title: "Governance Review #11"
  description: "L2BEAT provides weekly updates on governance in concise articles."
  publishedOn: "2024-03-29"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

### **Upcoming Retro rounds and their design**

Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/upcoming-retro-rounds-and-their-design/7861) announcing the design of future RetroPGF rounds based on feedback from and reflections on the previous rounds. The main change is the transition from broad-scoped rounds to more narrowly scoped rounds. The Collective [has earmarked 850m OP](https://optimism.mirror.xyz/nz5II2tucf3k8tJ76O6HWwvidLB6TLQXszmMnlnhxWU) (~$3.1 Billion USD at the time of writing) for future Retro rounds.

The next 4 Retro Rounds are going to be focused on:

- Onchain Builders
- OP Stack
- Governance
- Dev Tooling

### **Introducing the Collective Feedback Commission**

The Foundation [introduced the Collective Feedback Commission](https://gov.optimism.io/t/introducing-the-collective-feedback-commission/7863) which will consult the Foundation on early design drafts requiring a high degree of context. The Collective will gradually take on more governance responsibilities over time until the full system is maintained and managed by the Collective.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re looking to discuss the design of future RPGF rounds and collect thoughts and feedback from members of the Collective.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

## **Arbitrum**

### **On Chain Vote - Empowering Early Contributors: The community Arbiter Proposal 2.0**

This [proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-empowering-early-contributors-the-community-arbiter-proposal-2-0/20404) seeks to allocate 125,000 ARB, equal to 0.00125% of the total supply, to recognize and reward the outstanding contributions of the Arbitrum community members known as "Arbiter". Arbiter receives the arbiter community role in the Arbitrum discord after having made significant contributions to Arbitrum, as recognized by members of the Arbitrum team.

The 125,000 ARB would be equally split among the 25 Arbiters so each would receive 5,000 ARB.

The [Tally vote](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/7516302970844612385418101444853135774524286064427379173725195909617827683975) ends on April 12 2024 at 8:11 pm UTC.

### **[ARDC] DAO Advocate Communication Thread**

As the DAO Advocate, we (L2BEAT x Ant Federation) are committed to transparency and as such we have [published and will maintain a communication thread](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/ardc-dao-advocate-communication-thread/22865) to regularly provide upgrades on what we, as well as all the other members of the ARDC, are working on.

### **Arbitrum Onboarding Working Group Experiment**

We (L2BEAT) started [an initiative that transformed into a working group](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-onboarding-working-group-experiment/22849) funded by a Questbook grant to help onboard people in the Arbitrum DAO. The onboarding working group is experimental and will run for 3 months to determine its effectiveness in bringing new contributors to help with DAO initiatives.

There are 2 onboarding calls taking place every week ([Mondays at 2 pm UTC and Thursdays at 11 pm UTC](meet.google.com/mrq-sitk-mfu)) and a [Telegram account](https://t.me/ArbitrumDAOOnboarding) (not a group chat) for people to be able to reach the onboarding working group directly.

### **[RFC] The OpCo - Scale, Structure, & Synergy**

Dk3 from Premia [submitted an RFC ](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/the-opco-scale-structure-synergy/22737)that proposes the creation of an Operation Company (OpCo) to support the Arbitrum DAO and Foundation in fostering the growth and development of the Arbitrum ecosystem. The OpCo, led by an elected board of ecosystem participants, will be responsible for hiring full-time contributors, improving operational agility, and scaling the DAO’s impact through enhanced collaboration, resource allocation, and visibility. The AIP requests a budget of 25 million $ARB to cover the OpCo’s setup costs and operational expenses for the first two years.

### **[RFC] Security Council Member Test**

Cattin from SEED Latam [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-security-council-member-test/22809) that proposes introducing a preliminary technical test for Security Council candidates, which should simulate an emergency upgrade to the chain to demonstrate their technical skills and ensure that candidates can understand code.

### **[RFC] Kwenta x Perennial: Arbitrum Onboarding Incentives**

[This RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/kwenta-x-perennial-arbitrum-onboarding-incentives/22736) submitted by Kwenta and Perennial proposes allocating 1.5M ARB/month over the course of 3 months, for a total of 4.5M ARB, to facilitate onboarding Kwenta traders to Arbitrum. This includes existing Kwenta users on Optimism and sidelined Kwenta community members who have demanded to trade on Arbitrum and CEX traders (or new DeFi) traders. Kwenta & Perennial will collaborate to distribute the ARB.

### **[RFC] Arbitrum’s Memecoin Fund**

0xKawz [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrums-memecoin-fund/22743) that seeks to discuss the creation of a Memecoin Fund separate from the Arbitrum DAO, that selects, puts skin in the game, helps memecoin projects grow, and cultivates a memecoin-friendly culture in Arbitrum.

The proposal is still a work in progress, but the preliminary overhead for the DAO is to the tune of $3,315,000 USD worth of $ARB.

### **Open Discussion: Governance Tools and Mechanisms**

Following a successful[ temp check for their proposal](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x1204041955b729052b9adb4da9e3fa9a03c415ca45aeefd5c41da4d9d45ea851), Frisson from Tally [created a post ](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/open-discussion-governance-tools-and-mechanisms/22858)to serve as an open forum for people to share their ideas in regard to how Tally can improve their governance tools and mechanisms in the Arbitrum DAO, and also invite delegates to an open brainstorming session on [Thursday, April 4th at 1 pm UTC](meet.google.com/mmx-pdcp-wrb).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are multiple discussions and initiatives happening right now which we’d love to learn more about, discuss, and get involved with both in our capacity as delegates and also as the DAO Advocate for the ARDC.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

## **Uniswap**

### **Temp Check - Mobilizing the Uniswap Treasury**

[This proposal](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/mobilizing-the-uniswap-treasury/23397/20) by Arana Digital and StableLabs proposes forming a Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG) to explore treasury management strategies aimed at achieving sustainability and growth for the DAO. The UTWG will examine various treasury plans for Uniswap DAO based on 8 weeks of research at the end of which they will present at least two viable treasury management options for the DAO to begin pursuing. The UTWG asks for a budget of 6,000 $UN for their 8 weeks of work.

The [Snapshot vote](https://snapshot.org/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0xd2d3a01ed6e4b0c080073d4510f545a51db224ff6e57babb9454640cc5e1ddfd) ends on March 31 2024 at 5:15 pm UTC.

### **[RFC] Update Uni v3/v2 Deployment Process (March 2024)**

[This RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/update-uni-v3-v2-deployment-process-march-2024/23468) by AbdullahUmar of Arana Digital seeks to alter the deployment process for Uni v3 and v2 so as to enable the Uniswap Accountability Committee multisig to alter the subdomains as soon as a deployment’s RFC passes the 7-day discussion period–given there are no major points of contention during the RFC phase.

### **[RFC] Onboarding Package for Manta Pacific**

GFXlabs [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/onboarding-package-for-manta-pacific/23442) that seeks to add Manta Pacific to the v3 deployments record and grants Manta an Onboarding Package, which includes $250k of UNI incentives for three months on three key markets and Angle Merkl’s integration of Manta.

The overall cost of the proposal is $271,500 broken down as follows:

- $250k in UNI for three months of incentives
- €20k for Angle Merkl

### **[RFC] Deploy Uniswap v3 on Sei**

AbdullaUmar[ submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/deploy-uniswap-v3-on-sei/23471) that proposes the deployment of Uniswap v3 on Sei. Sei Foundation will commit up to $1M worth of liquidity to Uniswap pools on Sei. The proposal also seeks to determine whether this deployment will receive any incentives from the Uniswap onboarding package that has previously been established.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing potential areas of concern when it comes to treasury management from people with relative knowledge and experience, both from a financial but also from legal perspective.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

## **Hop**

### **[RFC] Protocol Financial Stability - Part 1**

0xLev1 [submitted an RFC](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/rfc-protocol-financial-stability-part-1/1140/1) that outlines the importance of prioritizing financial stability for HopDAO and introduces the first part of a three-part proposal aimed at effective treasury management.

### **October 2023 - March 2024 HIP 4 Delegate Compensation Reporting**

Following the recent [successful temp check](https://snapshot.org/#/hop.eth/proposal/0x89002ddb781af1a6221cce6bd3ec798465c33008d644d5024cfd053c27ee0ee0) to renew delegate compensation, Francom, the Head of DAO Operations, [published a post](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/october-2023-march-2024-hip-4-delegate-compensation-reporting/1139/1) for delegates to self-report their voting and communication ratio.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re keen to discuss the treasury management framework that 0xLev1 has presented to the DAO and get feedback from community members and delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

## **Polygon**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Polygon over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all things Polygon during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Starknet**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Starknet over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all things Starknet during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Connext**

### **[RFC] Extend Current Security Council and Upgrade the Election Process**

MinistroDolar [submitted an RF](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-extend-current-security-council-and-upgrade-the-election-process/1125)C that is introducing an extension of 3 months to the initial Security Council given that the 6-month bootstrapping phase originally provided for in the DAO documents has ended on March 5, 2024.

They are also proposing changes to the originally established election system, incorporating the requirement that at least 10 out of 12 Security Council members have a technical background that allows them to read code and detect possible vulnerabilities, as well as the division of the council into two cohorts, which will be renewed asynchronously and a few minor changes related to the election process.

### **[RFC] Semi-Annual APAC Media Proposal by BlockBeats**

Vaporyiw of BlockBeats Media [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-semi-annual-apac-media-proposal-by-blockbeats/1107) that proposes a media partnership between Connext and BlockBeats for a 6-month period for the total cost of 148,000 $NEXT.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

The structure of the Security Council is and the technical knowledge of its members is of vital importance for the security of the protocol. We’d love to discuss the proposal by MinstroDolar with other Connext stakeholders.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss the above and more during our [Connext Office Hours](meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.
