---
  title: "Governance Review #37"
  description: "Governance activity picks up the pace as we’re nearing the end of January."
  publishedOn: "2025-01-27"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

A new protocol upgrade proposal, and the publication of the learnings from the research and experiments that the Foundation ran are the main topics of discussion in Optimism this week.


### **[DRAFT] Protocol Upgrade: Superchain Registry 2.0**

Ben Jones, the co-founder of Optimism,[ published a protocol upgrade proposal](https://gov.optimism.io/t/draft-protocol-upgrade-superchain-registry-2-0/9579) that seeks to make several improvements to the Standard Rollup Charter’s Onchain Criteria. Primarily, it adds additional requirements for standardization previously enforced by the Optimism Foundation via Offchain Criteria. The upgrade does not require any updates to node software or contracts; therefore, the necessary rollout is minimal.


### **Retro Funding Season 7 Governance Process**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-season-7-governance-process/9564) explaining how the governance process will work in Season 7’s Retro Funding. This time around, the Collective will experiment with a “metrics-driven, humans in the loop” approach to Retro Funding. An Evaluation Algorithm defines how the impact is measured and rewarded in this model, while voters express their preferences by selecting the Evaluation Algorithm to be applied. You can read more about how the process works [here](https://optimism.mirror.xyz/zWlA9LROAzRee5BFqbquYHawmruKzLmXbONp_hcCwE4).


### **Citizenship learnings 2024**

Following the experiments ran in 2024 on the citizen selection mechanism, the Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/citizenship-learnings-2024/9563/1) in which they summarized the learnings they gathered. The post walks through the approach in the two different rounds in which the experiments were run, along with the key takeaways from each. We encourage you to read the whole post as it’s very comprehensive for the scope of the governance review.


### **S7 Internal Operating Procedures - M&M Council & Developer Advisory Board**

Juanbug_PGov, the Milestones and Metrics Council Lead, [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/milestones-and-metrics-council-s7-internal-operating-procedures/9583) outlining the internal operating procedures of the M&M Council. The post covers everything from communication with grant recipients, all the way to community feedback and workflow management. Similarly, zachobront, the Developer Advisory Board Lead, [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/developer-advisory-board-s7-internal-operation-procedures/9582) outlining the internal operating procedures of the DAB with the same format and scope.


### **Personas Research Findings**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/personas-research-findings/9562) with the findings from the personas research project they carried out in the fall of 2024. From the research, three personas emerged:

* Enthusiast
* Bootstrapper
* Superchain Builder

For each of these personas, the post includes their goals, common behaviors, challenges, needs, and governance participation. 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re curious to discuss the learnings from the Citizenship and Personas research conducted by the Foundation and see if and how we can utilize the information going forward or if there have been things that the community has feedback on.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Joint House Community Call]( https://meet.google.com/vme-ovto-jcn) - on 28.1 at 19:00


## **Arbitrum**

Two temp checks to vote on, a proposal by the Foundation, an RFP for treasury management services, and an update to the OpCo proposal. 


## **Active Votes**

**Temp-check**

[Proposal for Piloting Enhancements and Strengthening the Sustainability of ArbitrumHub in the Year Ahead](https://snapshot.org/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x959fb55d9887a68d3df6647e55010692777cc40e5c9b131dfdb3eedb8970dc6a) - ends on January 30 at 16:00 UTC

[Arbitrum Strategic Objective Setting (SOS) – Defining the DAO’s Interim Goals](https://snapshot.org/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x6baef084d47cb0e0f5788449e0d6fafd6312a69f65b550d62d5b6772297b8695) - ends on January 30 at 00:06 UTC


### **[RFC] Timeboost + Nova Fee Sweep**

The Arbitrum Foundation [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-timeboost-nova-fee-sweep/28247) that proposes an AIP for two separate actions into a single on-chain vote. The first one, Timeboost, introduces a new transaction ordering policy for Arbitrum One and Nova. The second one, the Nova Fee Sweep action, will forward historical transaction fees to the ArbitrumDAO Treasury.


### **[RFC] Building the Arbitrum DAO Creator Economy**

Melasin [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-constitutional-building-the-arbitrum-dao-creator-economy/28236?u=manugotsuka) that proposes amplifying the exposure of projects contributing to the Arbitrum ecosystem while onboarding high-level contributors from Web3 and Web2. The initiative aims to produce weekly content that showcases the full breadth of Arbitrum’s ecosystem, focusing on funded projects, appchains on Arbitrum Orbit, consumer apps, and even some of the top contributors of the DAO based on forum participation. Apart from this, the proposal suggests the creation of non-transferable NFTs that will be used to recognize contributors for their achievements in the DAO. The requested amount is 88,000 ARB (~ $56k at the time of writing), and the expected timeline is approximately 5 months.


### **[RFP Process] Request for Proposals: Treasury Management Services for Arbitrum DAO**

With the recent approval of the [Treasury Management V1.2](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/111105159609719390908725919603971316574753860587890014819515615630412225940809?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4), Threesigmaxyz [submitted an RFP](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfp-process-request-for-proposals-treasury-management-services-for-arbitrum-dao/28242) to identify suitable treasury management strategies and partners. In this post, they explained the guidelines that applicants must follow along with the rules and criteria of the whole process. The Application Deadline ends on February 6, 12:00 UTC.


### **OpCo – A DAO-adjacent Entity for Strategy Execution**

Entropy [updated](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/opco-a-dao-adjacent-entity-for-strategy-execution/27361/111?u=manugotsuka) the proposal based on feedback collected on the latest call they facilitated for the discussion of OpCo. The requested amounts were adjusted due to the decline of the ARB’s price since the proposal's last update. Additionally, 4M ARB was reserved for bonuses, the [timeline was updated](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/opco-a-dao-adjacent-entity-for-strategy-execution/27361?u=manugotsuka#p-61648-timeline-15), and an [OpCo KPIs & 12-Month Deliverables Section](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/opco-a-dao-adjacent-entity-for-strategy-execution/27361?u=manugotsuka#p-61648-opco-kpis-12-month-deliverables-7) was included. With all these changes, the proposal’s budget changed from ~21 M ARB to ~29.14 M ARB.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing OpCo with other delegates and relevant stakeholders and understanding their view of how it will plug into the DAO as things are right now. We’re also curious to hear delegates’ views on the state of the DAO in general and what’s on their mind these days.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[ADPC RPC Marketplace - Information Session](meet.google.com/kho-pfxn-ekc) - on 27.1 at 21:00 (?)

[Open Discussion of Proposal(s) - Bi-weekly Governance Call](meet.google.com/kvr-bpnx-zix) - on 28.1 at 16:00

[Entropy Advisors - biweekly office hours](https://meet.google.com/rms-unku-wsq) - on 28.1 at 17:15

[DeFi Education Fund Community Call](meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) - on 28.1 at 18:00

[Arbitrum Incentives Working Group](meet.google.com/jqp-ppsq-xnq) - on 29.1 at 17:00

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) - on 29.1 at 15:00


## **Uniswap**

Several new RFCs, with a conversation on the DAO\s tendering process taking center stage.


### **[RFC] - Uniswap DAO Tendering Procedure**

SEEDGov [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-uniswap-dao-tendering-procedure/25176) that outlines a process for the DAO to allocate resources to strategic projects, issue a public call for bids, and select the most suitable provider. The proposal mostly serves as a conversation starter on the topic of the process to identify needs and select suitable solutions to them through an open-bid process. 


### **[RFC] - Deploy a DeepDAO Pro Dashboard for Uniswap**

Eyal [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-deploy-a-deepdao-pro-dashboard-for-uniswap/25191) that advocates for the adoption of the DeepDAO Pro Dashboard to enhance Uniswap DAO’s governance processes. The proposals suggest a pilot period of six months, with the total cost for it being $25,000.


### **[RFC] Deploy Uniswap V3 on Shape**

Rory [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-deploy-uniswap-v3-on-shape/25163) that seeks to apply for canonical Uniswap V3 deployment on Shape. The relevant contracts have already been deployed, and Shape isn’t applying for an onboarding package. Therefore, the deployment will optimistically be approved and added to the registry by the Uniswap Accountability Committee as per the established process.


### **Uniswap-Arbitrum Grant Program (UAGP) - November/December Reporting**

Fin from Areta [published](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-arbitrum-grant-program-uagp-november-december-reporting/25180) the final full two-month reporting update for the UAGP, with operations to track, report, and payout milestones coming to a close at the end of January. On a high level, the program received over 140 applications and allocated a total of $943,444 in grants, with $387,750 remaining to be paid upon completion of milestones. For more information on the UAGP, refer to [their hub here](https://uagp.notion.site/Uniswap-Arbitrum-Grant-Program-UAGP-1c1e8b33bc60436993dd65e37d022f9d).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

The discussion around the tendering procedure started by SEEDGov is something interesting that we’ve seen being discussed in some way, shape, or form in other DAOs as well. We’d be curious to hear Uniswap’s delegates’ point of view on the matter.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[DEF Community Call](meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) - on 28.1 at 18:00


## **Hop**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Polygon**

Polygon’s incentive program is upon us, with the first cohort of 18 delegates having been announced.


### **Announcing the First Cohort of the Polygon Delegate Incentive Program (DIP)!**

Fin from Areta [published a post](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/announcing-the-first-cohort-of-the-polygon-delegate-incentive-program-dip/20525) to announce the first cohort of the Polygon Delegate Incentive Program (DIP), which will have 18 members. We remind you that the full details of the DIP and how it’ll work can be found in [Areta’s original post here](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/introducing-the-delegate-incentive-program-dip-for-polygon/20156).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the DIP with other delegates and governance stakeholders to ensure that we’re optimizing for the best possible outcome.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

There’s a proposal for Staking v2 to ensure that the participating validators are capable of running reliable infrastructure.


### **SNIP 28: Staking V2 proposal**

Ohad from StarkWare [published a post](https://community.starknet.io/t/snip-28-staking-v2-proposal/115250) that seeks to propose staking v2, a second iteration of the [original staking proposal](https://community.starknet.io/t/snip-18-staking-s-first-stage-on-starknet/114334) that focuses on ensuring the validator set consists of entities capable of running reliable infrastructure. Staking v2 is about adding a “work,” or something that validators should actively do periodically as a condition to receive rewards.

The development work is well underway, and the first stage of stakes is planned to go live as early as Q2 2024. In the meantime, we’d encourage you to read the full proposal to better understand all the specifications. 


### **Starknet v0.13.4 Pre-release Notes**

FeedTheFed from Starkware [published the pre-release notes for Starknet v0.13.4](https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-v0-13-4-pre-release-notes/115257) in a technical deep-dive of the expected changes. The upgrade is expected to be on the testnet by the end of February and on the mainnet by the end of March. 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We always want to discuss Starknet and what’s happening there with other interested stakeholders. If that’s you, please reach out!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

Things are quiet in Everclear, with just GTF publishing an update.


### **Everclear Governance Task Force Update**

SEEDGov, the program manager of Everclear’s Governance Task Force (GTF), [published](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-governance-task-force-communication-thread/1251/16) a bi-weekly report on the activities of the GTF. 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things we’ve missed or that you believe we should be aware or involved with, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Lisk’s governance hasn’t seen any significant developments over the last week apart from a vote to extend the voting duration that has now [concluded successfully](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/lisk/proposal/60494881537064471427010415677573720737403834973997318256137019489887098775830). If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**

Lots of discussion has been happening in zkSync over the past few days, with a lot of debate on the occasion of the latest ‘Catalyst’ proposal.


## Active Votes

[[GAP-2] Adopt The SEAL Safe Harbor Agreement](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/35395412545014978447594654620386134175315194219985614464693911512436668500487?govId=eip155:324:0x496869a7575A1f907D1C5B1eca28e4e9E382afAb) - ends on January 28 at 17:07 UTC

[AAVE DAO Airdrop Claim Extension Request](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/57908166665921469155508302947951953966033148387652385473031300159207145997268?govId=eip155:324:0x10560f8B7eE37571AD7E3702EEb12Bc422036E89) - ends on Feb 1 at 23:30 UTC


### **A Plea for Based ZKsync Governance**

Following an extensive conversation and debate after the ‘[Catalyst](https://forum.zknation.io/t/tpp-zksync-catalyst-program-catalyst/445)’ proposal was published, lex_node [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/a-plea-for-based-zksync-governance/474) in the forum explaining their views on governance and how zkSync should steer towards more ‘based’ governance. The post is very extensive and covers multiple different things, so we encourage you to read it in full. We also encourage you to participate in the discussion and offer your views.


### **Setting up Snapshot for easier ZK Nation coordination**

TempieTeche [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/setting-up-snapshot-for-easier-zk-nation-coordination/473) to start a discussion about the creation of a Snapshot space to enable the community to coordinate and find consensus on a directional level before attempting to put a proposal up for a formal vote on Tally.


### **ZKsync GovFeed v1.0: Accessible Governance Monitoring via RSS**

Rafa from the ZKsync Governance Team [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-govfeed-v1-0-accessible-governance-monitoring-via-rss/460) to announce the completion of the development of an MVP governance monitoring system. You can find the [RSS feed here](https://feed.zknation.io/).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There’s a lot of discussion happening in the DAO right now on the occasion of the Ignite program being live and the Catalyst proposal being made. We’re interested in discussing those proposals and any surrounding topics/concerns with other delegates and relevant stakeholders.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Standing ZKsync Proposal Review Call](meet.google.com/qvr-txgr-vja ) - on 29.1 at 16:30


## **Scroll**

The Scroll DAO Constitution has been published, and it’s being shaped before going to a vote to be ratified.


### **Proposal: Scroll DAO Constitution**

Eugene, the Governance Lead at Scroll, [published a proposal](https://forum.scroll.io/t/proposal-scroll-dao-constitution/448) to present the first version of the Scroll DAO Constitution to the community and delegates. This constitution sets out the key governance principles, guidelines, and processes by which Scroll DAO shall operate. While the Constitution is intended to clearly outline the governance principles and processes of the Scroll DAO, it is recognized that this is a living document that will evolve as needed.

The proposed constitution is too comprehensive to properly summarize in this review, so we encourage you to read it in its entirety in the original post.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the proposed Constitution with other delegates and hearing their thoughts on what should be included, amended, or removed before it goes to a vote.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](meet.google.com/smr-hxgd-btt) - on 29.1 at 12:30

[Weekly DAO & Governance Call](meet.google.com/mhz-ncvc-ipd) - on 29.1 at 18:00