---
  title: "Governance Review #29"
  description: "Two different protocols electing their Security Council, and other governance-related news."
  publishedOn: "2024-10-14"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---


## **Optimism**

There are high-level discussions happening in Optimism right now, from the Superchain Product Vision to Revenue Opportunities for the Optimism Collective


### **Superchain Product Vision**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/superchain-product-vision/8988) outlining their vision for the Superchain over the next two years. On a high level, the vision statement revolves around 4 key points:



1. Standardization of chains enables decentralization and composability at scale.
2. The Superchain starts as 15-50 chains that feel like one and scales to 1000+.
3. Governance protects the security of the Superchain.
4. Governance creates a flywheel of sustainable growth and development.


### **Revenue Opportunities for the Optimism Collective**

Alexsotodigital, inspired by GFX Lab’s ‘[Accelerated Decentralization Proposal For Optimism](https://gov.optimism.io/t/accelerated-decentralization-proposal-for-optimism/8875)’, [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/revenue-opportunities-for-the-optimism-collective/9045) to discuss different revenue opportunities for the Optimism Collective. To give structure to the process, he proposes using the three steps suggested by the ‘collective proposal creation’ described in the sociocratic model.


### **Announcing Super Contributor Cohort 0**

SuperchainEco, following the approval of their Mission Request, [announced the beginning of the Super Contributor Cohort 0](https://gov.optimism.io/t/announcing-super-contributor-cohort-0/8959). The cohort will teach new and existing Optimism Collective members the insights and skills needed to become elite Collective contributors. The first cohort (Cohort 0) consists of the Optimism Contributor Essentials MOOC, Weekly Contributor Meetings, a series of onchain exercises, and a Contributor Meetup in Bangkok.

For all the details, read their [blog post](https://www.superchain.eco/insights/cohort0).


### **Retro Funding 6: Application Review Process**

The Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-6-application-review-process/8977/1) outlining the review process for Retro Funding Round 6 applications. This process is run by a selected group of Citizens during a two-week period following the project sign-up process. The post also includes expectations for the Citizens who are selected, application rules, and a reviewer checklist.


### **Impact Garden - Enhancing data-driven Impact Evaluation**

LauNaMu [published a post introducing the ‘Impact Garden,’](https://gov.optimism.io/t/impact-garden-enhancing-data-driven-impact-evaluation/8964) a platform that seeks to generate reputable, standardized onchain data on the impact of contributions to the Collective. The platform uses qualitative data to generate impact metrics voters can leverage to inform their votes.


### **Collective Feedback Commission Pilot Retrospective**

The Optimism Foundation [published a retrospective on the Collective Feedback Commission](https://gov.optimism.io/t/collective-feedback-commission-pilot-retrospective/8970)(CFC). The post starts off with a recap of the CFC and what the goals of the pilot program were, and then goes into the learnings the Foundation got out of it. Lastly, the post also includes initial thoughts on the next iteration of the CFC.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re keen to discuss things happening in Optimism and particularly the Superchain Product Vision published by the Foundation.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) on 15.10 at 16:30

[Foundation AMA: Decentralization Models](meet.google.com/wnp-ojcs-dyo) on 17.10 at 17:30

[govNerd Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/epc-dkgs-pfk) on 17.10 at 18:00


## **Arbitrum**

Arbitrum’s Security Council elections have started, and the DAO is buzzing with activity.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Funds to Bolster Foundation’s Strategic Partnerships Budget](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/78608365328815179822381240433375943106975722017227920505592824878237374730465?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on October 17 at 17:01 UTC

[ArbitrumDAO strategic “Off-site” (online) updated proposal](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/96690486288059875871645030622562174419564010435288438848687174619767247452877?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on October 18 at 19:05 UTC

[Enhancing Multichain Governance: Upgrading RARI Governance Token on Arbitrum](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/56768509231150680433760428191516666361790213029100482092064768634784370622764?govId=eip155:42161:0xf07DeD9dC292157749B6Fd268E37DF6EA38395B9) – ends on October 18 at 19:11 UTC

[Arbitrum DAO Delegate Incentive Program](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/7979895167029508946638584765496434407327098393519089113101189960001594458109?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on October 24 at 18:20 UTC

[Fund the Stylus Sprint](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/24926593791565028016457688578136747185250074804329950986605484216603582190563?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on October 24 at 18:58 UTC

**Temp-check**

[LTIPP Retroactive Community Funding Selections](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x817ca6edf6d7e5c9fd5c9839cdd266c600054a443169fdb577bc7567f70073f0) – ends on October 17 at 20:22 UTC

[Establishing a DAO Events Budget for 2025](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xdfe7bf7e5bc227fc06765f37d9d9ecd1371e637b93b574ae4cc4c1d345cd648f) – ends on October 17 at 22:39 UC


### **Security Council Elections**

The [elections for the Security Council members have begun](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/september-2024-member-election-phase/27156) and will continue until November 3rd. To encourage delegates’ early participation, a vote decay mechanism will go into effect after 7 days (on October 20th at ~15:15 UTC). The decay will linearly reduce delegates' voting power all the way to 0 on the final day of the elections. For this reason, we recommend that you cast your vote early.

You can see all the qualified members and [cast your vote here](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/council/security-council/election/2/round-2).


### **[RFC] Arbitrum Token Swap Pilot Program**

LuukDAO [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-arbitrum-token-swap-pilot-program/27106/1) to propose a pilot token swap program. In this initial pilot phase, they want to prioritize mature protocols on Arbitrum, the so-called Arbitrum Blue Chips, of which [19 have been identified](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12JCghJR7iZXjE-1HD22tJixyVh_qFGEPFJJXpARg_P4/edit?gid=148482686#gid=148482686). The pilot aims to swap with 3-7, with a maximum swap budget of 2M ARB and a cap of 0.5M ARB per project. The proposal is expected to take ~6 weeks for execution, and it will cost 130,000 ARB for the implementation.


### **[RFC] Proposal for Financial Restitution For ArbitrumDAO Grant Winners**

Karakrysthal [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-for-financial-restitution-for-arbitrumdao-grant-winners/27020) that seeks financial restitution for a number of grantees who participated and won in “ArbitrumDAO’s Biggest Minigrants Round Ever.” which was organized in the context of the ThankARB grant program. Specifically, the author argues that because of ThankARB team delaying the payments, the grantees incurred losses due to the continued decline of ARB’s price. The proposal seeks a total of $19,606 USD to be distributed to grantees to make up for the loss in value incurred because of the delays.


### **Arbitrum DAO - Monthly Token Flow Report - September 2024**

R3gen_Finance [published their monthly Token Flow report](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-dao-monthly-token-flow-report-september-2024/27138) for September 2024. Some of the highlights include:



* Net transaction fees collected by the DAO amounted to 80% of total transaction fees charged vs. 96.5% in August.
* Net spend was 2.2M ARB vs. 27.4M ARB in August. Close to 5M ARB was returned from the STIP Bridge and LTIP programs (i.e., gross spend was 7.2M ARB)

You can [read the full report here](https://online.flippingbook.com/view/948068932/).


### **[ARDC] Final Report**

The ARDC’s 6-month term came to an end and we (L2BEAT), [published a final report](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/ardc-final-report/27050) that captures all of the things that the ARDC accomplished over its term.


### **Ratification of GCP Council Appointees**

Coinflipcanada [published a post on behalf of the GCP Council](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/ratification-of-gcp-council-appointees/27142) detailing the timeline of activities up to commencing the ratification vote and the proposed next steps to complete the ratification process of the nominated council members.

On October 17th, there will be a Snapshot to ratify the members of the GCP Council. We remind you that as per the process outlined in the onchain vote for the GCP, three council members were elected, and two members are to be appointed by the GCP Working Group (WG), who are subject to ratification by the DAO.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing active proposals while also hearing from Security Council nominees so we can best determine who to vote for.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[ARDC V2 Proposal Discussion](meet.google.com/uao-ukjw-eoz) on 16.10 at 13:00

[Security Council Member Elections - AMA with Candidates](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1zqKVYWyNwaxB) on 16.10 at 14:00

[Arbitrum Incentives Working Group](meet.google.com/jqp-ppsq-xnq) on 16.10 at 16:00

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 17.10 at 14:00

[GCP Open Office - Weekly](meet.google.com/hjf-hrfg-gxg) on 17.10 at 16:00

[Social Media Fellowship](meet.google.com/ybo-huqw-jnr) on 17.10 at 17:00


## **Uniswap**

Uniswap’s DAO is discussing ideas for a second round of treasury delegations, and a comprehensive proposal seeks to introduce a DAO-led ‘Growing Uniswap’ program.


### **[RFC] - Uniswap Growth Program Trial**

Alphagrowth [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-uniswap-growth-program-trial/24703) to follow up on their previous post, ‘[’Growing Uniswap through Incentives, Distribution, and Co-Marketing](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-alphagrowth-growing-uniswap-through-incentives-distribution-and-co-marketing/24578)’’, with a proposal for a trial growth program. The comprehensive proposal covers all relevant aspects in great detail, so we encourage you to read it. 

On a high level, the proposal seeks a total of $420,000 over 6 months to support the proposing team’s efforts on business development operations, marketing operations, and the Uniswap Ecosystem Incentives Initiative.


### **[RFC] Application for Canonical Uniswap V3 Deployment on BOB**

InternalError [published an RFC that seeks to get BOB’s Uniswap V3 deployment recognized as canonical](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/application-for-canonical-uniswap-v3-deployment-on-bob/24693). There’s no action required by the DAO as the contracts have already been deployed, and the proposal is not requesting an onboarding package or a subsidy for the cost of Oku or Merkl.


### **Treasury Delegation Round 2 Ideas**

Continuing the discussion on the Treasury Delegation program and a possible round 2, Erin, Uniswap Foundation’s governance lead, started three threads to discuss three different ideas on the matter:



1. [Increased allocation of UNI delegated](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/treasury-delegation-round-2-ideas-increased-allocation/24677)
2. [Expiring Delegation](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/treasury-delegation-round-2-ideas-expiring-delegation/24676)
3. [Developer Allocation](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/treasury-delegation-round-2-ideas-developer-allocation/24678)


### **September ‘24 Uniswap Report**

Oku [published their latest Uniswap Monthly Report](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/september-24-uniswap-report/24708) summarizing protocol metrics for September 2024. The executive summary mentions:



* Across all chains, Ethereum saw the most Uniswap volume with $20.77 billion in v3 pools, seconded by Arbitrum. Each of the major deployments experienced significant decreases in volume and fees.
* This month, the protocol experienced a relative decline in volume (-2.9%) and liquidity (-1.7%) over competing DEX protocols, with a slight increase in fees (+0.4%).
* Layer 2 deployments’ share of volume and fees fell this month, while their liquidity share rose for the first time since May 2024.
* This month, the recent Uniswap v3 deployments on Polygon zkEVM and Lisk were added to the report.

You can [read the full report here](https://newsletter.oku.trade/p/uniswap-monthly-sept2024).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

The proposal by AlphaGrowth seems interesting, and we’d like to discuss it further with other delegates and the proposers themselves.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

Hop’s grant program is live, and the DAO is accepting nominations for a new ‘Head of DAO Operations.’


### **Nominations for the Head of DAO Ops Election**

The [nominations for the Head of DAO Operations role are again open](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/nominations-for-head-of-dao-ops-election/1109/7) after the first term ended on August 26th. You can learn more about the role’s responsibilities and compensation in the [original post here](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/rfc-head-of-dao-governance-and-operations-role/1089).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If you’re considering applying for the Head of DAO Ops role, we’d like to hear from you and learn why you’d be a good fit.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1276723079023951904) on 16.10 at 17:00


## **Polygon**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There is no news related to governance, but you might find the following posts interested, particularly if you’re a Polygon validator.



1. [Introducing the New DNS Discovery for Polygon PoS](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/introducing-our-new-dns-discovery-for-polygon-pos-faster-smarter-more-connected/19871)
2. [Polygon Staking Report. September 2024 (By Validator.Info)](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/polygon-staking-report-september-2024-by-validator-info/19837)

 

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Polygon Protocol Governance Call](meet.google.com/kez-vsmk-kng) on 17.10 at 15:00


## **Starknet**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

Everclear is electing its new Security Council, and three proposals are being discussed in the forums.


## **Active Votes**

[Social EGP 18 - Everclear Security Council Regular Members Elections](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x01b757025aa54805eb422fab1154a580700444591e77f0b62bc3f809b1a85437) – ends on October 16 at 19:51 UTC

[Executable EGP 20 - Everclear Security Council Lead Elections](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x5e1beb3c5ef41e324987611f903bf4b9e39b678987910f3c871f12b1ed081887) – ends on October 16 at 20:17 UTC


### **[RFC] Liquidity Task Force (LTF) Extension**

Velidev [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-liquidity-task-force-ltf-extension/1323) to extend the Liquidity Task Force's mandate for a new six-month term with updated KPIs and a refined focus on increasing protocol volume. During its previous term, the LTF only allocated 7.72% of the 3,500,000 $NEXT allocated to it. With a 6-month extension, the LTF would have more time to utilize the remaining $NEXT.

The proposal also suggests that the LTF elect four additional members and that the base compensation for all eight members (4 old ones + 4 new members) will be $3,000 per member, for a total of $148,000 over the 6-month term.


### **Governance System: Vote Bonding Mechanism Update**

Vending_Machine published a post that seeks to contribute to the ongoing discussion surrounding governance and the implications of the ‘vote bonded’ [token system upgrade](https://forum.connext.network/t/introducing-clear-bonding-the-next-token-upgrade/1248). There was also a call to discuss the same proposal, the recording of which [can be found here](https://forum.connext.network/t/introducing-clear-bonding-the-next-token-upgrade/1248/13).


### **Governance Metrics Report - Q42023 to Q32024**

SEEDGov, as the program manager of Everclear’s GTF, [published Everclear’s first Governance Metrics Report](https://forum.connext.network/t/governance-metrics-report-q42023-to-q32024/1319). The report is comprehensive and covers all governance-related metrics, including proposals, voters and voting power.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’d love to hear from Security Council nominees and learn more about why they're a good fit to help decide how we’ll cast our vote. Additionally, we’d love to discuss Vending Machine’s proposals with more delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.


### **Community Call (October 1st) Recording**

The recording of the Wormhole Community Call on October 1st, 2024, was [published in the forum](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/wormhole-community-call-october-1st-2024/285/7). You can listen to the recording to [catch up here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Tnua_kuBBZtCvxujwz4VqfiOp7djQGh7/view).

Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Wormhole yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **Lisk**

There are some discussions taking place in Lisk, but there’s only one proposal this week.


### **[RFC] Redistribution of Unclaimed Hodlerdrop Tokens**

Grumlin [submitted an RFC](https://forum.lisk.com/t/redistribution-of-unclaimed-hodlerdrop-tokens/110) that suggests redistributing unclaimed tokens from the [hodlerdrop](https://hodlerdrop.lisk.com/hodlerdrop/) proportionally to the airdrop already received by other participants, following in [LayerZero’s footsteps](https://x.com/LayerZero_Fndn/status/1837228529282334736).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other Lisk delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Lisk yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **ZKsync**

Although relatively new, ZKsync’s governance forum is already seeing action.


### **Token Programmes as a Path Towards a True Cybernetic Governance Framework**

Drnick [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/token-programmes-as-a-path-towards-a-true-cybernetic-governance-framework/142) in which he proposes a way of thinking about Token Programs that lead to the minimal, mechanistic, and efficient use of the delegate-driven global consensus. The post includes a very comprehensive breakdown of a high-level design that would be difficult to summarize in this review. For this reason, we encourage you to [read the full post here](https://forum.zknation.io/t/token-programmes-as-a-path-towards-a-true-cybernetic-governance-framework/142).


### **Standing Delegate Call 15.10.23 - Thread**

Theshelb [started a thread](https://forum.zknation.io/t/standing-delegate-call-15-10-23-thread/154) to gather discussion topics for the upcoming standing Delegate call on [Tuesday, October 15th, at 15:30 UTC](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha). If you have topics you want to discuss during the call, you should comment under the thread ahead of the call so everyone can come prepared.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

ZKsync seems to be taking a different approach to governance than what we’ve seen in other DAOs and we’d be interested to discuss it with other delegates.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Standing ZKsync Delegate Call](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha) on 15.10 at 15:30