---
  title: "Governance Review #43"
  description: "A packed review with news across all DAOs we are actively participating in."
  publishedOn: "2025-03-17"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**


## **Active Votes**

[Upgrade Proposal #13: OPCM and Incident Response improvements](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/84511922734478887667300419900648701566511387783615524992018614345859900443455) - ends on March 19 at 18:55 UTC.


### **govNERDs Season 7: Update Thread**

Sov has [shared](https://gov.optimism.io/t/govnerds-season-7-update-thread/9755) some highlights for the week of March 2–8, including the Token House Voting Cycle #34, currently in its review period (ending March 19), Citizens’ House voting on the Sequencer ETH proposal, and the Retro Funding deadline on March 7. They also unveiled a new Bounty System for contributors, launched three Working Groups to refine the govNERDs contribution path, and held their first Community Check-in call alongside the inaugural Delegates Onboarding monthly call – all of which aim to streamline governance tasks, strengthen contributor engagement, and enhance the overall governance experience.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Optimism’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Optimism Office Hours](https://l2beat.com/governance/publications/meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Grants Council Office Hours](meet.google.com/vkn-qnwy-qqy) - on 18.3 at 17:30.

[govNERDs Community Office Hours](meet.google.com/gag-guua-inr) - on 18.3 at 19:00.

[Grants Council Office Hours](meet.google.com/vkn-qnwy-qqy) - on 20.3 at 17:30.


## **Arbitrum**


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Adopt Timeboost + Nova Fee Sweep](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/14881197137069494959448952699217598923721993392617887469969318742509097999570?govId=eip155:42161:0xf07DeD9dC292157749B6Fd268E37DF6EA38395B9) - ends on March 27 at 21:30 UTC.

[Arbitrum Onboarding V2: A Governance Bootcamp](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/41764616447638715300612914863093416410063619332654034338488569044333128121381?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on March 27 at 23:11 UTC.


### **March 2025 Contender Submission Phase**

The Arbitrum Foundation has [created a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/march-2025-contender-submission-phase/28701) that outlines the rules that interested users must follow to apply for the Arbitrum Security Council election. The process is currently in the contender Submission phase (from March 15 to March 22). During this phase, anyone can apply to become a candidate using an EOA to apply on [Tally](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/council/security-council/election/3).


### **STEP Report - February 2025**

Steakhouse [has provided](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/step-report-february-2025/28666) its February 2025 update on the Stable Treasury Endowment Program (STEP), featuring a monthly [PDF statement](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RNrrTrCGvXq09s5osG0DVBmd1okd7yrG/view?usp=sharing) and live analytics via [Dune](https://dune.com/steakhouse/step-dashboard/1b508c7c-63ec-42e9-86d9-c3a86d23766e). This report offers life-to-date yields per asset – along with a three-month treasury benchmark comparison – and reflects changes such as OpenEden’s refund of a five basis-point mint fee, Backed’s partial fee refund, and the BUIDL position now fully accounted for on Arbitrum.


### **Recommendations for Improving the DAO’s Grant Programs**

The research members of the ARDC II, CastleCapital, and DeFillamal have [posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/recommendations-for-improving-the-dao-s-grant-programs/28645) recommendations based on research about the Arbitrum Grants program, such as the Domain Allocator program. The focus is on improving the processes, budgeting, accountability, and communications to ensure a better impact outcome in future program iterations.


### **Entropy Advisors Transparency Report: Q2**

Entropy has [created a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/entropy-advisors-transparency-report-q2/28671) to share their transparency report for Q2. In this document, they summarize the current state of the initiatives that they are leading and share their expectations for the next Q3 period.


### **Arbitrum Token Flow Report - February 2025**

r3gen Finance [has posted](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbitrum-token-flow-report-february-2025/28660) its February 2025 Token Flow Report, highlighting 761 ETH in net transaction fees (68% of total fees, unchanged from January), along with 88.5M ARB deployed across STEP 2.0, OpCo, and DAO Season 3 Grants. The STEP 1.0 program generated $227k in interest (~476k ARB), while total monthly spending reached 4.4M ARB, driven mainly by 3.5M ARB for the Subsidy Fund, and 0.7M ARB for administrative items (ARDC, ADPC, DIP, MSS). Additionally, 567k ARB was returned by Plurality Labs’ milestone multisigs, and the ADPC also refunded excess USDC to the DAO treasury.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Arbitrum’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](https://l2beat.com/governance/publications/meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Arbitrum DAO in ETH Bucharest 2025](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/85178435095) - on 17.3 at 15:00.

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) - on 20.3 at 15:00.

[Bi-Weekly ARDC Office Hours](meet.google.com/ras-qcrd-dqz) - on 20.3 at 17:00.


## **Uniswap**


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Uniswap Unleashed](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/uniswap/proposal/83) - ends on March 19 at 08:26 UTC.

[Unichain and Uniswap v4 Liquidity Incentives](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/uniswap/proposal/82) - ends on March 19 at 06:10 UTC.

**Temp-check**

[[Temp Check] Saga Uniswap v3 Liquidity Incentives](https://v1.snapshot.box/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0x6175261050aeccdd3d541cb4eb2b58c9fde747bfda509896586df5a62e1295d4) - ends on March 17 at 19:30 UTC.


### **[RFC] Treasury Delegation Round 2**

Tane has [introduced a proposal](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-treasury-delegation-round-2/25355) to launch the second round of Uniswap’s Treasury Delegation program, following up on the initial 2023 pilot that allocated 10M UNI to underrepresented delegates. This new iteration suggests delegating either 10M, 15M, or 20M UNI to active community members, divided into two cohorts with on-chain expiration periods of 6 or 12 months. The proposal incorporates strict requirements for delegates that want to participate, including at least 80% voting participation across both Snapshot and on-chain proposals, providing rationales for 80% of votes, and capping any single delegate’s total voting power at 1.5M UNI. If approved, existing Round 1 delegations would be withdrawn, and the new allocations would be enforced via a ScopeLift-built system that automatically rescinds delegations once their term expires. While the broader idea of allocating voting power to developers remains a separate discussion, Round 2 aims to continue strengthening governance, incentivizing consistent delegate engagement, and ensuring that voting power is diverse and accountable.


### **[Re-Temperature Check] - Activate Uniswap Protocol Governance**

TreeEnthusiast has [created a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/re-temperature-check-activate-uniswap-protocol-governance/25372) to fully activate Uniswap Protocol Governance, reviving a previous temperature check that garnered overwhelming community support in March 2024. Despite initial delays caused by an unnamed stakeholder’s concerns, the crypto landscape has since shifted favorably—other major DeFi protocols have moved to implement fee switches, and the SEC has taken a notably more supportive stance. This new proposal calls for deploying the already audited contracts (originally prepared by UniswapFDN) and proceeding with an on-chain vote. If successful, it would transfer the UniswapV3Factory’s ownership to a governance-controlled contract, paving the way for autonomous fee collection and distribution in future proposals. UNI holders must delegate their tokens before May 31 to participate in the vote

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Uniswap’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Hop’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1208466459312001169 ) - on 19.3 at 18:00.


## **Polygon**


### **POL Liquid Staking**

Cupojoseph has [created a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pol-liquid-staking/20771) outlining a prospect for a native liquid-staked version of the POL token. This initiative aims to increase different areas such as the utility of the POL token for holders, the amount of staked POL,  governance participation, and liquidity and defi participation of POL holders. This proposal will act as a temp check, and if the DAO wants it, Polygon's engineering team will create and write all technical requirements and feasibility assessments.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Polygon’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Starknet’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


### **RFC — vbCLEAR Season 2 & Transition to Buy-Back Mechanism**

NMajors [created a proposal](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-vbclear-season-2-transition-to-buy-back-mechanism/1370) that outlines extending the vbCLEAR staking program into Season 2 while removing solver incentives, which are now replaced by the newly launched EverScale program. Under this plan, stakers can lock tokens for up to 12 months and continue earning both WETH (25% of what remains) and CLEAR rewards. Starting in April 2025, the DAO will deploy about 38 WETH from leftover rewards to buy back CLEAR on Uniswap, with all repurchased tokens allocated to liquidity provisioning. Afterward, protocol-generated fees (in ETH) will fund quarterly buy-backs aimed at strengthening the token’s liquidity and shifting away from heavy emissions.

By tying Clear’s tokenomics more closely to real protocol revenue, this proposal seeks to foster a sustainable ecosystem for vbCLEAR stakers while building the DAO treasury over time. No major contract changes are initially required, though the DAO will explore autonomous buy-back execution. If approved, Season 2 kicks off in March 2025, with staking rewards, WETH buy-backs, and liquidity improvements continuing on a regular quarterly cycle.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Everclear’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Wormhole’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**

Lisk’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Lisk’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**

## **Active Votes**

[[ZIP-8] Upgrade Chain Creation Params](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/98806622840077485421207653857298019081476009136539565020582912190689619102417?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) - ends on March 17 at 21:20 UTC. 

### **TPP-X: Unified Elastic Network Dashboard**

Aakash from the PYOR team has [created a proposal](https://forum.zknation.io/t/tpp-x-unified-elastic-network-dashboard/618) to create a comprehensive analytics dashboard that tracks all zkSync Elastic Network chains, metrics, and ecosystem growth in a single unified platform. According to the proposal, this future dashboard will track critical metrics across four key categories: Network-Level Metrics, Chain-Level Metrics, Decentralization and security Metrics, and Performance Metrics. The implementation plan for this dashboard will be three months of development and 12 months of Post-launching maintenance. The total budget allocated to this initiative is $55,850.


### **Notice of PLANNED Emergency Upgrade related to ZIP-5**

The ZKSync Security Council has [created a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/notice-of-planned-emergency-upgrade-related-to-zip-5/605) outlining a planned emergency upgrade for the [ZIP-5 Upgrade Governance Contracts](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-5-upgrade-governance-contracts/487). During their [evaluation](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-5-security-council-verification/573?u=manugotsuka), they identified several issues, including a discrepancy in the voting delay and quorum extension parameters, as well as an erroneous refund recipient address. The execution of this action is an ideal opportunity to test the Emergency Upgrade function on the mainnet in a controlled environment.


### **ZKsync Ignite Cancellation**

Karthiksenthil from the DeFi Steering Committee (DSC) has[ announced](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-ignite-cancellation/612) that the ZKsync Ignite program will not continue into Season 2, with rewards officially stopping on March 17, 2025. Despite successfully driving DeFi TVL from roughly $100M to $270M, reducing stable-stable trade slippage to around 1bps, and demonstrating the power of targeted incentives, the DSC is shifting focus to the Elastic Network. They cite delays in native interoperability technology, current market headwinds, and the broader goal of conserving resources for Elastic Network development as key reasons for winding down Ignite. All remaining rewards will be distributed by March 17, 2025, and service provider contracts will be settled by March 30, 2025. Looking ahead, the DSC plans to refine ZKsync tokenomics to deliver more value to token holders and launch fresh initiatives for the community. A detailed Season 1 recap—including spending, outcomes, and lessons learned—will be published by the end of March 2025, with input from OBL, DSC, and Merkl to guide future incentive programs.


### **ZKsync Foundation Proposals Priorities**

Be1garat has [created a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-foundation-proposals-priorities/611?u=manugotsuka) that introduced three focal workstreams shaping the ZKsync Foundation’s near-term roadmap, each addressing critical questions for the protocol’s continued growth and security. The first priority, Sustainable and Secure Protocol Development, concentrates on maximizing security in protocol upgrades (via audits and bug bounties) and forming a strategy for ongoing R&D funding—potentially involving support from the Token Assembly. The second priority, 10x Growth via ZK Chain Acceleration, targets removing ecosystem barriers (like core onchain infrastructure), offering incentives for high-impact ZK Chains, and fostering network effects for the Elastic Network. Finally, the third priority, Token Utility & Governance Innovation, explores how tokenomics can complement ZKsync’s decentralized features—such as sequencers and interoperability—and what governance experiments (e.g., prize-based funding, futarchy) could add long-term value.

In parallel, the Foundation aims to establish Shared Services v1.0, providing ecosystem-wide support for oversight, project management, branding, analytics, and security. Builders and governance contributors are encouraged to join the TPP Builders community, where the Foundation will coordinate outsourcing needs.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to ZkSync’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Standing ZKsync Delegate Call](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha ) - on 18.3 at 17:00.


## **Scroll**

[Scroll DAO Constitution](https://gov.scroll.io/proposals/1247605826408291988137032745109360457689615424039552986782425232092434978933) - ends on March 21 at 04:08 UTC.

Scroll’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Scroll’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Grant Program Discussion](meet.google.com/nug-uygx-hbd) - on 19.3 at 11:30.

[Delegate Training Call](meet.google.com/pcm-nxzr-rig) - on 19.3 at 17:00.
