---
  title: "Governance Review #40"
  description: "Things in governance are heating up ahead of ETHDenver!."
  publishedOn: "2025-02-17"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**


### **[Informational] Upcoming Upgrades Preview**

0xEscanor [has created a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/informational-upcoming-upgrades-preview/9657) that outlines a preview of OP Lab’s plans for upcoming protocol upgrade proposals. Various new features will be added to the smart contracts to provide a list of the most important details to inform the collective about them ahead of time. Among these new features, we can find the implementation of the OP Contracts Manager, Fault Proofs Incident Response Improvements, L2 Pectra Support, Superchain Pause improvements, and other technical upgrades oriented to improve the UX for all users.


### **Proposal Preview: DeputyPauseModule (Superchain Pause Improvements)**

Kelvin [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/proposal-preview-deputypausemodule-superchain-pause-improvements/9658) announcing that OP Labs plans to submit a proposal to add a new Safe Module called DeputyPauseModule to be installed into the Optimism Foundation Safe. This implementation will allow the Optimism Foundation to assign a “Pause Deputy” private key that can be used to create signatures that authorize the use of the Superchain-wide pause. As the post says, this is just a proposal preview, so there are excepted changes shortly.


### **Proposal Preview: Fault Proofs Incident Response Improvements**

Kelvin [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/proposal-preview-fault-proofs-incident-response-improvements/9659) announcing that OP Labs plans to submit a proposal to introduce technical improvements to several key contracts. These changes will allow for more flexibility and less disruptive responses to potential incidents or bugs within the OP Stack fault-proof system. The primary expected outcomes are to give better control over incident response action from the Guardian and Security Council and reduce the disruption during incident responses that might affect users. As the post says, this is just a proposal preview, so there are excepted changes shortly.


### **Proposal Preview: OP Contracts Manager Upgrades and Release Process Improvements**

Maurelian has [published a proposal preview](https://gov.optimism.io/t/proposal-preview-op-contracts-manager-upgrades-and-release-process-improvements/9662) introducing a new system for upgrading L1 contracts within the Superchain. The system streamlines a process that is currently highly manual and error-prone. The core change bundles deployment and testing into a single “on-chain script” called the OP Contracts Manager (OPCM), ensuring a more rigorous, automated flow. Along with minor in-contract modifications (such as removing unused logic and fixing stack issues), these updates aim to allow faster, safer, and more frequent upgrades.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Optimism’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Grants Council Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/vkn-qnwy-qqy) - on 18.2  at 17:30

[Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](http://meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) - on 19.2  at 17:30

[Grants Council Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/vkn-qnwy-qqy)  - on 20.2  at 17:30


## **Arbitrum**


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Arbitrum D.A.O. (Domain Allocator Offerings) Grant Program - Season 3](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/47215139570733026393508270943324710379923699871435188004224569883226292800465?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on February 20 at 17:22 UTC

**Temp-check**

[Arbitrum Growth Circles Event Proposal](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xab1a7ff1a294882315f3beaa77fa0d4b2ec68633792046b941714108209ce737) - ends on February 20 at 22:23 UTC


### **AIP: ArbOS Version 40 Callisto**

The Arbitrum Foundation [submitted a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/constitutional-aip-arbos-version-40-callisto/28436) proposing to upgrade Arbitrum One and Nova chains to ArbOS 40 “Callisto.” The main objective of this change is to support the upcoming Ethereum Pectra upgrade in the Arbitrum Execution Layer. Apart from that, a minor Arbitrum stylus fix will also be included. Not all of Pectra’s EIPs will be included on Arbitrum because some are related to the specific areas that are part of Ethereum and not Arbitrum.


### **Proposal: Arbitrum Airdrop 2 - Builder Appreciation Day**

Cupojoseph from Open Dollar [created a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-arbitrum-airdrop-2-builder-appreciation-drop/28428) suggesting the creation of a second Arbitrum Airdrop specifically directed at builders. The idea consists of distributing 500M ARB, 50% of which will go to builders who deployed contracts on Arbitrum or Orbit chains and the other 50 % to Arbitrum users who are part of these chains. This proposal aims to double the current TVL over the next year and simultaneously attract more talent builders to the Arbitrum ecosystem.


### **Jumper x Merkl // MAGA 2025 [Make-Arbitrum-Great-Again]**

0xluude has [published a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/jumper-x-merkl-maga-2025-make-arbitrum-great-again/28463) to request 60M ARB for 3 seasons of 3 months each to support DeFi on Arbitrum. The proposal includes increasing spot asset liquidity for bluechip assets on Arbitrum, enhancing lending market liquidity for both bluechip and Arbitrum-native assets, boosting trading volume across perpetual and spot DEXs on Arbitrum, and showcasing Arbitrum projects. This initiative aims to allow new entrants to discover Arbitrum’s thriving DeFi ecosystem and enjoy industry-leading opportunities.


### **DIP 1.0 Accountability & Closing Thread**

SEEDGov has [made an update](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/dip-1-0-accountability-closing-thread-establishing-a-standard-for-dao-accountability/28429/4) that outlines the final result of the first iteration (DIP 1.0) of the Delegate Incentive Program. The reports detail the data collected from 8 months the DIP 1.0 version was operating. The total budget used for this period was 1,088,820.31 ARB, representing 68.91% of the original budget (1,580,000 ARB). The rest of the unused funds will be returned to the DAO treasury.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Arbitrum’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Arbitrum Growth Circles Office Hours](meet.google.com/irb-aups-kej) - on 17.2 at 14:00

[Arbitrum Audit Program - Office Hours](meet.google.com/nzc-mbuu-nir) - on 17.2 at 16:00

[Governance Attack Research AMA with Nethermind]( https://meet.google.com/zxy-odgb-gmn) - on 20.2 at 16:00

[Bi-Weekly ARDC Office Hours](meet.google.com/ras-qcrd-dqz) - on 20.2 at 17:00


## **Uniswap**


### **[RFC] Uniswap Unleashed**

The Uniswap Foundation has [created a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-uniswap-unleashed/25251) outlining four strategic focuses: scaling liquidity across EVM chains via Uniswap v4 and Unichain, attracting developers to build premier DeFi platforms, activating protocol revenue mechanisms, and onboarding new core contributor teams. To fund these plans, the foundation requests $95.4M for its grant budget and $25.1M for operations over two years. The Foundation aims to bolster supply (liquidity) and demand (developer activity) network effects while strengthening governance through new tools and potential legal structures. 


### **[RFC] Uniswap Unleashed: Unichain and Uniswap v4 Liquidity Incentives**

The Uniswap Foundation has [created a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-uniswap-unleashed-unichain-and-uniswap-v4-liquidity-incentives/25250) to fund two liquidity incentive programs to attract initial LPs, swappers, and developers to Uniswap v4 and Unichain. These incentives are not meant to be perpetual. Additionally, campaigns will focus on increasing developer activity to sustain demand for liquidity after the incentives end. The total budget requested for this initiative is $45M. 


### **Uniswap Delegate Reward Initiative - Cycle 3**

Doo_StableLab, PGov, AranaDigital, and Seedgov [have created a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-delegate-reward-initiative-cycle-3/25241) that outlines the Uniswap Delegate Reward Initiative—Cycle 3, a compensation program designed to improve and sustain the participation quality and dedication among Uniswap delegates following the conclusion of Cycle 1 and 2. The post describes details regarding application eligibility, scoring mechanisms, and the different actions that can give “points” to the delegates interested in participating in these incentives. Only 15 delegates will be eligible each month for a maximum of $6000 worth $UNI. The program will be 6 months with a total budget of $540k. \
 \
Additionally, details about the learnings and challenges of cycle two were mentioned. The most significant change to this new cycle was the increased emphasis on voting participation, particularly on-chain voting.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Uniswap’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Hop’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1208466459312001169 ) - on 19.2 at 18:00


## **Polygon**


### **PIP-59: Moving the Floor Gas Price of 25 Gwei from a Priority Fee to a Base Fee**

Manav Darji and Sandeep Sreenath from Polygon Labs [have proposed](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-59-moving-the-floor-gas-price-of-25-gwei-from-priority-fee-to-base-fee/20609/1) shifting the 25 Gwei minimum gas price in the Polygon PoS network from a priority fee to a base fee. Under the new approach, if the base fee falls below 25 Gwei, it will automatically be set to this floor. This change aims to improve wallet and dApp UX by making the minimum gas price directly queryable at the protocol level, reducing failed transactions and manual updates. Because it modifies the consensus layer, the proposal would require a hardfork.


### **PIP-60: Increase block gas limit to 36M**

Manav Darji and Sandeep Sreenath have [created a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-60-increase-block-gas-limit-to-36m/20610) to raise the block gas limit on the Polygon PoS network from 30M to 36 M. This increase aims to handle higher transaction volumes as network usage grows while remaining safe for validators. Because the limit is enforced at the client level, the proposal is backward-compatible and doesn’t require a consensus change. Validators would update their execution clients to accept a 36M gas limit, which should help accommodate rising demand without overly straining node hardware.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Polygon’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**


### **zkLend Emergency Relief Plan**

kootsZhin[ created a post](https://community.starknet.io/t/zklend-emergency-relief-plan/115342) suggesting that the Starknet Foundation step in after the $9.6M zkLend exploit by acquiring the protocol or using leftover DeFi Spring rewards to compensate affected users fully. The idea is to signal strong ecosystem support, preserve investor trust, and sustain the momentum of DeFi Spring. This approach is to avoid new token inflation, restore confidence in Starknet security, and drive more capital and demand for STRK in the long run.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Starknet’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**


## Active Votes

[Executable EGP 26 - Grants BORG Formation](https://snapshot.box/#/s:dao.connext.eth/proposal/0xd15a3c3db35d8db6c80de751d47c97ff44246ff43e854a7132fb3cdb3454b358) - ends on February 21 at 02:57 UTC

[Executable EGP 27 - Community Leader Incentivization H1 2025](https://snapshot.box/#/s:dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x2529f96203295e968e5f6fba7a1373883cab9d7737328a63a16b9c42340f83cf) - ends on February 23 at 6:34 UTC

Apart from the two proposals currently up for a vote, Everclear’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Everclear’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Wormhole’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**

Lisk’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Lisk’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**


## Active Votes

[Upgrade Governance Contracts](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/32477831455745537024214395992964479454779258818502397012096084176779102554510?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) - ends on February 25 at 19:14 UTC

[Prepare ZKsync for ZK Gateway](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/67712324710515983914473127418805437707715095849437613773846173900686148862581?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) - ends on February 25 at 19:29 UTC


### **ZKSync Ignite Update and Period 4 Allocations - Feb. 15th, 2025**

0xk3y [has released an update](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-ignite-update-and-period-4-allocations-feb-15th-2025/557) on ZKSync Ignite, summarizing Period 3 insights and outlining Period 4 plans. Period 3 saw a total budget of 11.46M ZK for 75 incentivized pools, resulting in about $16.2M in TVL growth. The team plans to collaborate with protocols on allocations and discourage exploitative behavior, aiming to sustain growth as the ZK ecosystem matures.


### **Introducing MetaLeX - Providing an Accountability Layer for TPPs**

Lex_node [has created a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/introducing-metalex-providing-an-accountability-layer-for-tpps/555/1) introducing MetaLeX, which merges onchain governance with offchain legal accountability through “cyBernetic ORGanizations” (BORGs). These BORGs combine SAFE-based smart contracts with legally binding agreements, tackling a common DAO dilemma where multisigs and entities lack transparent oversight. The MetaLeX OS offers features like BORGcore (modular SAFE guards), MetaVesT (comprehensive token vesting), and LeXscroW (non-custodial escrow), plus “cybernetic” legal backstops for real-world enforceability. This framework lets DAOs maintain granular control over grants—reassigning or adjusting individual contributors’ roles and vesting, rather than cutting entire funding programs—enabling better accountability without sacrificing continuity.


### **Standing Delegate Call Feb 18th - Thread**

Rafa from the ZKsync Governance team [invites delegates](https://forum.zknation.io/t/standing-delegate-call-feb-18th-thread/553) to propose topics for the upcoming Standing Delegate Call on February 18th. Suggested items include a 5-minute intro segment for TPP Builders, a curation of topics for ETH Denver, and a reminder about Association Membership on Tally. Delegates can add and upvote discussion points directly in the thread, and Rafa will finalize the agenda based on community input on the day of the call.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to zkSync’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

[Standing ZKsync Delegate Call](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha ) - on 18.2 at 17:00


## **Scroll**


### **Security Council Announcement**

Eugene from the Scroll Foundation [announced the launch](https://forum.scroll.io/t/security-council-announcement/488) of the Scroll Security Council, a 12-member governance group responsible for protocol upgrades, emergency responses, and admin control of Scroll’s governance contracts. Divided into two cohorts (A for 18-month terms initially, B for 12), the Council holds a 9-of-12 multisig that can execute routine and emergency changes. Members include representatives from L2BEAT, OpenZeppelin, Gauntlet, Secureum, and others, all chosen for their technical expertise, community standing, and geographic spread.


### **Q1 Goals and Priorities**

Eugene from Scroll Foundation [has made a post](https://forum.scroll.io/t/belated-q1-goals-and-priorities/487) that outlines the Scroll Foundation’s Q1 governance roadmap, focusing on four key areas: Operations, Ecosystem Growth, Global Community, and Governance Iterations. On the Operational side, they plan to publish goals on time, hire a governance facilitator, and propose improvements to forum docs and treasury management. Ecosystem Growth efforts include launching at least two grant programs—one from the DA and one from the Foundation—and ensuring each has clear goals and metrics. They’re also exploring shared data infrastructure so all funding initiatives can align on consistent metrics.

For the Global Community, the target is to strengthen local networks in four main regions (Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia, and South Korea). Two or more pilot “local node” proposals should go live by April, with a fifth region on deck soon. Under Governance Iterations, priorities include hosting a delegate day, outlining RFPs for small research grants, planning the next Co-Creation Cycle (in June), and developing the first iteration of a delegate training program. These goals build on the DAO’s first Co-Creation Cycle, intending to foster transparency, collaboration, and a more globally engaged Scroll community.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

You can find us to discuss everything related to Optimism’s governance, from current initiatives to high-level conversations, during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC):**

Korea Local Nodes - on 18.2 at 13:00.

[Grant Program Discussion](meet.google.com/nug-uygx-hbd) - on 19.2 at 12:30.

[Delegate / Governance Training Discussion](meet.google.com/stz-xhzg-xfq) - on 19.2 at 18:00.

[Malaysia Local Community Nodes](meet.google.com/tuj-cnmw-kvd) - on 20.2 at 13:00.