---
  title: "Governance Review #14"
  description: "L2BEAT provides weekly updates on governance in concise articles."
  publishedOn: "2024-04-19"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Optimism over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Arbitrum**

### **On Chain Vote - Double-Down on STIP Successes (STIP-Bridge)**

[This proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/double-down-on-stip-successes-stip-bridge/22353) introduces the STIP Bridge, aiming to sustain and enhance Arbitrum’s market leadership by distributing an additional 37,500,000 ARB as incentives to eligible protocols. Any protocol funded under STIP or the Backfund is eligible to apply for a bridge grant coinciding with the LTIPP distribution window. The STIP Bridge proposal aims to serve as a strategic interim solution until the Perpetual Incentives Program is initiated.

The [Tally vote](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/46550423530471344392834314743264512919726282073822921510880507756642229672784) ends on May 3rd, 2024 at 8:59 pm UTC.

### **Temp Check - Delegate to Voter Enfranchisement Pool — Event Horizon**

Event Horizon has [submitted a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/double-down-on-stip-successes-stip-bridge/22353) that seeks to request a delegation (not a grant) of 7,000,000 ARB from the treasury to their public-access voter block to enfranchise thousands of small voters. They’re also requesting a grant of 50,000 both for the maintenance of Event Horizon for the next year, and also as a retroactive reward for the product they’ve built so far.

The [Snapshot vote](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x66fd48c246080260275e60e327b4d14d3ca202c6d13aba17e970c55536b44664) ends on April 23rd 2024 at 9:00 pm UTC.

### **Temp Check - Subsidy Fund for Security Services**

[This proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-subsidy-fund-for-security-services/22958) submitted by Bernard on behalf of the ADPC proposes the creation of a procurement subsidy fund allocating up to $10 million worth of ARB to provide financial assistance to both new and existing projects within the Arbitrum ecosystem. These subsidies will be exclusive to a pre-approved whitelisted set of security audit service providers, selected by the ADPC, who will publicly display their fees.

The [Snapshot vote](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xd45c0426919353cbce3e7e2a3e7a00c01f9d606bb7ed6c9788db4598f044b16a) ends on April 25th 2024 at 4:57 am UTC.

### **Temp Check - Safeguarding Software Developers’ Rights & the Right to Privacy**

ImmutableLawyer [submitted a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-constitutional-defending-open-source-a-united-stand-for-developer-rights-and-software-freedom/23047) that proposes a monetary contribution to DEF & Coin Center from the ArbitrumDAO to continue their policy, litigation & advocacy efforts about open-source software & software developers’ rights. The proposed amounts range from 500,000 to 1,500,000 ARB for each of the 2 entities.

The [Snapshot vote](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xda58687b8ffae1e178caf049302897183e6c657f5227fd4eac6aba7f982442ac) ends on April 24 2024 at 9:22 pm UTC.

### **[RFC] BOLD - permissionless validation for Arbitrum**

The Arbitrum Foundation [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-bold-permissionless-validation-for-arbitrum/23232) that proposes upgrading both Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova’s Rollup Contracts to use Arbitrum BOLD: a new dispute resolution protocol that is designed to replace the existing and currently deployed Arbitrum protocol. BOLD delivers two critical improvements:

1. Unlocks permissionless validation for Arbitrum chains.
2. Enhances the security of Arbitrum chains by mitigating the risk of delay attacks.

There’s no overhead for the DAO to enable BOLD as Offchain Labs has taken up the engineering work and the responsibility of the necessary audits.

### **[RFC] Nova Fee Router Proposal**

Arbitrum Foundation [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-nova-fee-router-proposal/23310) that proposes a system in which the funds the DAO receives from transaction fees on Nova are “automatically” (permissionlessly) sent from Nova to the Arbitrum DAO Treasury on Arbitrum One. This gives the DAO faster, easier accessibility to these funds, and should make bookkeeping simpler.

### **[RFC] Support RIP-7212 for Account Abstraction Wallets**

[This proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-support-rip-7212-for-account-abstraction-wallets/23298) submitted by Arbitrum Foundations proposes we adopt RIP-7212 2 (Rollup Improvement Proposal), a precompile for verifying the secp256r1 curve on Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova. It’s important to note that other major L2s have also committed to adopting RIP-7212. Adding support for this precompile would enable account abstraction wallets to cheaply verify a type of signature widely used in passkeys and secure enclaves.

### **[RFC] M&A for Arbitrum DAO**

Bernard [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/m-a-for-arbitrum-dao/23205) that outlines the opportunity for Arbitrum DAO to form a Mergers and Acquisitions Unit (M&A) focused on identifying and executing M&A opportunities. The [M&A working group](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/start-of-arbitrum-m-a-working-group/22520) has been working on this RFC for the past 4 weeks and is still working on refining the proposal based on feedback from delegates.

### **[RFC] Establishment of Arbitrum Ventures Initiative (AVI)**

Lino [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-proposal-non-constitutional-establishment-of-arbitrum-ventures-initiative-avi/23222) that proposes the establishment of The Arbitrum Venture Initiative (AVI) to support growth within Arbitrum’s ecosystem through large-scale strategic investments. At this time, the RFC is proposing the formation of a group to research such opportunities as well as the set-up of the legal, strategic, governance, and operational structures to support large-scale investments. \

### **[RFC] Hack Humanity: GovHack at ETH CC (Brussels)**

Entropy [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/hack-humanity-govhack-at-eth-cc-brussels/23305), in collaboration with Hack Humanity, seeking $309k of funding from the Arbitrum DAO to host an event and after-party coinciding with ETH CC in Brussels, Belgium. Arbitrum GovHack Brussels will take place as a 3-day event on July 5, 6, and 7, the days directly prior to the start of the conference.

For reference, Klaus from Hack Humanity also [published an impact report](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/govhack-ethdenver-2024-impact-report-hack-humanity/23239) of the GovHack event that took place during the week before ETHDenver.

### **[RFC] Arbitrum Treasury Token Swap Program**

Devansh [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-constitutional-arbitrum-treasury-token-swap-program/23303) that seek comments on the Arbitrum Treasury Token Swap Program, a proposal to elect 5 dealmakers for negotiating token swaps with top apps in our ecosystem. This proposal does NOT seek to transfer any large funds for an actual token swap. Instead, this proposal requests a total of 210,000 ARB that will be used to empower and compensate dealmakers who upload token swap agreements on Tally for ArbitrumDAO to directly approve.

### **[RFC] Enhancing Incentive Program Discoverability**

404 DAO [published an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-enhancing-incentive-program-discoverability/23295) to start a discussion on how the DAO can ensure protocols receiving growth incentives are easily discoverable, and ideally, making this discovery simple and accessible for users.

### **Introducing Arbitrum Fellowships**

We (L2BEAT) [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/introducing-arbitrum-fellowships/23235) introducing the Arbitrum Fellowships. Borrowing from Lord of the Rings nonmeclature, fellowships are groups of people united by their pursuit of a desire. Desires are basically needs that the DAO has — think incentives, game development, community growth, etc. The purpose of each fellowship is to ideate, discuss, research, and establish a plan through which we can address the DAO’s desires. \
 \
The end goal of the fellowships is to experiment with creating a streamlined process to facilitate discussions around a desire that eventually leads to some sort of actionable result.

### **Arbitrum Foundation Grant Program Phase Three**

Arbitrum Foundation [announced the beginning of the third phase of its grant program](https://twitter.com/arbitrum/status/1780650675245879512) which will run until the end of June and is welcoming applications from builders building on Arbitrum One, Nova, Orbit, or Stylus.

### **Launching an RFP Process for Innovative Grant Programs and Managers**

Ben from ThankARB [announced the launch](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/launching-an-rfp-process-for-innovative-grant-programs-and-managers/23270) of their latest Request for Proposal (RFP) process for grant programs. A total of 3,000,000 ARB has been earmarked for distribution to 5 to 10 different grant programs. Applications for potential grant managers or grant ideas close at the end of April.

### **Tally’s Arbitrum Roadmap**

Following a successful proposal to expand support for Tally on Arbitrum, [Tally published their roadmap](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/tallys-arbitrum-roadmap/23223), informed by feedback from delegates. On a high level, the items on their roadmap include:

- Improvements to the proposal process
- Governor Contract upgrades
- Highlighting delegates’ contributions
- Conducting research

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are a lot of recently published proposals being discussed and we’d love to learn how we can help push things forward on all these different fronts both as active delegates, but also in our capacity as DAO Advocate in the context of ARDC. If you’re involved in any of the aforementioned, or other, initiatives, please do reach out to discuss how we can help.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Uniswap**

### **Elections - Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG)**

Following a successful temp-check to establish the Uniswap Treasury Working Group (UTWG), [the proposal has moved to elections](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-treasury-working-group-utwg-application/23571) to select the 2 members who will accompany Abdullah Umar of Arana Digital and Doo of Stable Labs, who are pre-appointed, in the UTWG.

The nominees are:

- karpatkey
- Franklin DAO
- GFX Labs
- 404 DAO
- Steakhouse Financial Limited
- JoJo
- SpikeWatanabe.eth
- Nathan van der Heyden
- Solo Labs Corporation
- Blockchain Education Network

The [Snapshot vote](https://snapshot.org/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0x7584aabd34944953f37008d4a6209e4efee8f1a066a5051fbba37910dae80b49) ends on April 20 2024 at 7:40 pm UTC.

### **[RFC] Options for Supporting DeFi Education Fund**

Doo from StableLabs [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-options-for-supporting-defi-education-fund/23638) that is parallel to [the proposal to fund DEF](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-supporting-the-defi-education-fund/23631) and aims to give the DAO more options to choose from when it comes to funding. The original proposal ranges from 500,000 to 1,500,000 white this proposal ranges from 100,000 to 1,000,000.

### **March ‘24 Uniswap Report**

Oku [published their report](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/march-24-uniswap-report/23672) summarizing protocol metrics for March 2024.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other delegates to determine what the level of support Uniswap provides to DEF should be, especially given the recent legal battle waged on Uniswap by the SEC.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Hop**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Hop over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Polygon**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Polygon over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Starknet**

### **Starknet Funding Opportunities**

Tomasz K. Stańczak of Starknet Foundation and Nethermind [announced](https://twitter.com/tkstanczak/status/1780542472218701890?s=46&t=q4Q232TdEyWIiMZPfDpI4A) that Starknet Foundation is setting up multiple grants initiatives for top builders (professionals and debutants) that will distribute anywhere between $5k to $1m depending on the scale of your projects and ambitions. More details will follow, but for the time being you can message Tomasz on Telegram.

Tomasz [also announced](https://twitter.com/tkstanczak/status/1780552158905086363) the creation of hacking/incubating spaces in London (and soon also Singapore and other APAC countries) where you can also get funding and mentoring.

### **Second (Third, Fourth, …) User Airdrop - Making Starknet Happen**

Sendmoodz [published a post](https://community.starknet.io/t/second-third-fourth-user-airdrop-making-starknet-happen/113907/7) that seeks to start a discussion around a potential second (and third, fourth…) airdrop for Starknet users.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

With grants initiatives being set up, we’re interested in discussing with builders interested on building on Starknet and see how we can best help them as delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

## **Connext**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were not aware of any significant governance-related news in Connext over the last week. If you think we might have missed something important, please reach out to let us know!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Connext Office Hours](meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.
