---
  title: "Governance Review #34"
  description: "There’s one final push to get things across the finish line before the holidays and we’re here for it."
  publishedOn: "2024-12-16"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---


## **Optimism**

Optimism is going full-steam ahead into Season 7 with eleven(1) active votes this week, while three of them are onchain.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Season 7: Security Council Operating Budget](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/105125741176440203640094995315240049083818024528491410796690326665108302292014)– ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Grants Council Mission](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/42171716559194066774096630474193953258592283643878595219084966413803469648242)– ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Decision Market Mission](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/110056430729080386792816227311450746138390196036704148024783380982810773372502) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

**Offchain**

[Onchain Treasury Transfer Cancellation Test](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/94610974215642918725693487878085811785474320873544989487178353065899060460412) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Upgrade Proposal #11: Holocene Network Upgrade](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/20127877429053636874064552098716749508236019236440427814457915785398876262515) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

 [Season 7: Intent Ratification](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/106197078319070238442982538943461006899502017598835122473289450535038443039415) – ends on Decembere 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Season 7: Anticapture Commission Amendment](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/81329280883846954682349421813163481922086727616194816867537448588284139710873) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Season 7: Grants Council Operating Budget](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/113395645275190312177047367740435087758207466337425363849657431713193292571149) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Season 7: Developer Advisory Board Operating Budget](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/49069551108010786317276710250321368518142423368375472047280675391658792795460) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Season 7: Milestones and Metrics Council Operating Budget](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/28176481672236813969648290336143157264806680620695961617794539011701353731831) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC

[Code of Conduct Council Dissolution Proposal](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/37879045360062854784591124256577395563453262877307292920231075516279653147858) – ends on December 18 at 20:07 UTC


### **Optimism Budgets Discussion Calls**

We (L2BEAT) hosted 2 calls last week to discuss the proposed budgets for the upcoming Season 7. You can [find the recordings of the calls here](https://gov.optimism.io/t/optimism-budgets-discussion-calls/9369/1) so you can learn more about the respective budget proposals and answer any questions you may have that were addressed on the calls.


### **Introducing Octant**

Octant [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/introducing-octant/9361/1) in the forum to introduce itself and its vision to the Collective. Octant, part of Golem Foundation, is a project that facilitates sustainable, community-coordinated impact funding at scale. They have staked 100,000 ETH and are using the yield generated from it to fund open source projects and public goods in the Ethereum ecosystem.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If you’re interested in discussing any of the votes before the deadline to better inform your decision, we’d encourage you to join our office hours. We’re also interested in talking with builders on Optimism or other chains in the Superchain for our [KYB podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0VsuS4Ad1I&list=PLpjUQiZJ_pqJTZDjfzFF4gE9rqUK8k_3Z).

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Token House Community Call](https://meet.google.com/vme-ovto-jcn) on 17.12 at 19:00

[govNERD Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/epc-dkgs-pfk) on 19.12 at 19:00


## **Arbitrum**

Arbitrum is heading into its DAO-agreed holiday break (December 20 to January 6) and ‘tying up its loose ends’ before that with 2 onchain votes and 3 temp-checks.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Arbitrum Hackathon Builder Continuation Program](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/108658450973990931334575713480652794742647878863726354508911679874665321261959?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on December 19 at 20:10 UTC

[Treasury Management V1.2](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/111105159609719390908725919603971316574753860587890014819515615630412225940809?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) – ends on December 20 at 06:44 UTC

**Temp-check**

[Unifying Arbitrum’s Mission, Vision, Purpose (MVP)](https://v1.snapshot.box/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xf5fdce242b85134153397754d25a43a49611a3e8a1c73b2e11a67e864c56e022) – ends on December 19 at 13:00 UTC

[Partner with ETH Bucharest 2025](https://v1.snapshot.box/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x04c5984e2e2b8270a793bfb1bbe35c2c8a360429e2e1a5e72a3917215c51144d) – ends on December 19 at 19:22 UTC

[OpCo – A DAO-adjacent Entity for Strategy Execution](https://v1.snapshot.box/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x8298874cdf0e0a1849cc02eefd3bc7d94c6868c560774df963318a5edd39a53f) – ends on December 19 at 21:27 UTC


### **Arbitrum D.A.O. (Domain Allocator Offerings) Grant Program –  Domain Allocator Applications**

After successfully passing temp-check, the Arbitrum D.A.O grant program [opens up the application process](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/election-application-thread-arbitrum-d-a-o-domain-allocator-offerings-grant-program/27909) for prospective domain allocators for the following domains:



* New Protocols and Ideas
* Education, Community Growth and Events
* Gaming
* Dev Tooling on One and Stylus

The application is also open for a program manager. Interested parties should apply under the application thread using the provided template by January 5th. The elections are scheduled to begin on January 9th.


### **Are We Overlooking Marketing in Favor of Development in Arbitrum?**

LunarStrategy [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/are-we-overlooking-marketing-in-favor-of-development-in-arbitrum/27904) seeking to start a discussion on whether or not Arbitrum DAO prioritizes development over marketing. In the post, they argue that while the DAO is giving plenty of development grants, marketing-related grants go overlooked and projects are not provided with the necessary marketing to help reach a broader audience.


### **Questbook DDA Program Report**

Entropy [published a program report](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/questbook-dda-program-report/27859) for Questbook’s DDA program, on occasion on the proposal to renew it for another year with a replenished budget and new domain allocators. The review focused on 5 top grantees from each of the four domains (total of 19 grantees reviewed). We encourage you to read through the report to better understand the program’s results so far and inform yourself before the new proposal goes to an onchain vote.


### **Entropy Advisors Transparency Report: Q1**

Entropy [published a transparency report](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/entropy-advisors-transparency-report-q1/27799) for the first quarter of their 1-year exclusive partnership with Arbitrum DAO. You can read the [full report here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WeHR2_inNgnXY4E3awX5eNsWeMO2KsXm/view).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

With the end of the year dawning closer, we’re interested in doing aa sort of retrospective about all the different proposals and initiatives we’ve seen throughout 2024 in Arbitrum DAO. We’re curious to hear your thoughts about what worked well, and what could be improved going forward.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Open Discussion of Proposal(s) - Bi-weekly Governance Call](meet.google.com/kvr-bpnx-zix) on 17.12 at 16:00

[Entropy Advisors - biweekly office hours](https://meet.google.com/rms-unku-wsq) on 17.12 at 17:15

[Stylus Sprint: 2nd Open Office Hour](meet.google.com/eep-chrt-vpp) on 17.12 at 18:00

[Arbitrum Incentives Working Group](meet.google.com/jqp-ppsq-xnq) on 18.12 at 17:00


## **Uniswap**

Two new chains apply for a canonical deployment, Celo requests incentives, and the UAC proposes to use surplus budget for co-incentive campaigns. 


### **Uniswap Deployment - Guideline**

Alicecorsini, on behalf of the UAC, [published a guideline](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-deployment-guideline/25015) for chains who would like to obtain an official canonical Uniswap v3/v2 deployment on their chain and/or UNI incentives related to it. The guideline explains the process through which a chain can request a deployment, provides information on financial support and UNI incentives available, and also includes a template for a DAO proposal.


### **[RFC] Scale Uniswap Liquidity on Celo**

Michaelcelo [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-scale-uniswap-liquidity-on-celo/24995) on behalf of Stabila Foundation to request $250k in UNI incentives for six months to support seven key stablecoin-related pools on Celo, alongside $105k for Oku deployment and maintenance.If provided, Stabila Foundation will match the incentives with $500k in CELO incentives to amplify the impact of this initiative.


### **[RFC] Saga L1 Application for Canonical Uniswap V3 Deployment**

Beccaliao [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-saga-l1-application-for-canonical-uniswap-v3-deployment/25008) on behalf of Saga L1 that seeks to apply for a canonical v3 deployment. The DAO doesn’t need to take any further action as the RFC doesn’t request UNI incentives and the application for the deployment will be optimistically approved within a week.


### **[RFC] Discretionary Budget from UAC for Co-Incentive Campaigns**

Alphagrowth [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-discretionary-budget-from-uac-for-co-incentive-campaigns/25019) that proposes accelerating the execution of co-incentive campaigns by leveraging some of the UAC’s surplus budget to capitalize on high-impact, time-sensitive opportunities without needing any additional funding from the DAO. 

Due to the surge in UNI’s price, the UAC currently sits on ~$2,9M of surplus. The proposal requests the authority to use some of these surplus funds to enable high-value co-incentivization campaigns spearheaded by the Uniswap Growth Program. These surplus funds would be issued by an internal UAC vote on a case-by-case basis, ensuring the campaigns align with the goals of the Uniswap DAO and enabling the Uniswap Growth Program to act quickly on high-value opportunities. 


### **[RFC] Deploy Uniswap V3 on Corn, the Butter Network!**

Justin_corn [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-deploy-uniswap-v3-on-sonic-formerly-fantom/25024) on behalf of Corn Network that seeks to apply for a canonical v3 deployment. The DAO doesn’t need to take any further action as the RFC doesn’t request UNI incentives and the application for the deployment will be optimistically approved within a week.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the proposal by the UAC to use the surplus budget for co-incentive campaigns as well as the implications that would have. We’re also happy to talk about any other initiatives that you think we should be aware of.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Polygon**

The latest proposal that discusses deploying the stables on the PoS bridge into liquidity pools is all the rage in Polygon this week.


### **Pre-PIP: Polygon PoS Bridge Liquidity Program**

AllezLabs [published a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pre-pip-polygon-pos-bridge-liquidity-program/20284) to initiate discussion on gradually deploying the DAI, USDC & USDT reserves of the Polygon PoS Portal Bridge into curated liquidity pools to kickstart a new Ecosystem Incentives program to grow the DeFi ecosystems of Polygon PoS and the AggLayer.

The PoS bridge currently holds ~$1.3B of stablecoins, which makes it one of the largest, holders of stablecoins onchain. At the current benchmark lending rate for the 3 major stables this is an opportunity cost of around ~$70M annually. However, it’s important to note that the stables in the bridge belong to users and not to the DAO.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re very interested in discussing AllezLabs’ proposal as we believe it’s a very sensitive topic that we should be very careful about how we approach it. It has the potential to set a -perhaps unwanted- precedent.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

There’s one active vote about migrating the DAO Treasury and the funds in the Arrakis vault from $NEXT to $CLEAR.


## Active Votes

**Social**

[DAO Treasury and Arrakis Vaults Migration](https://v1.snapshot.box/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x5231df1d525b9fe2c8899ab64779c7f54beb74767822b93a2a62f33f0e958fe6) – ends on December 21 at 3:36 UTC

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Apart from the one social vote, Everclear’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Everclear Delegates Call](meet.google.com/vqi-tdhd-aaq) on 19.12 at 14:00


## **Wormhole**


### **Community Call: January 10th**

The next [Wormhole Community Call](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/community-call-january-10th-12-00-pm-est/359) is scheduled for January 10 at 5:00 PM UTC. You can find the recording of the last community call (on December 13) [here](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/community-call-december-13-12-00-pm-est/350/2).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other Wormhole delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Wormhole yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **Lisk**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Lisk’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last two weeks. That said, we’re interested in discussing with other Lisk delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Lisk yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **ZkSync**


## Active Votes

**Onchain**

[[ZIP-003] Resubmission of Protocol Defense](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/39897055470405054808751466940888279812739313934036970931300785151980460250983?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) – ends on December 23 at 16:52 UTC


### **ZKsync 2025 Technical Roadmap**

Gluk64, the founder of ZKsync, [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-2025-technical-roadmap/374) to share ZKsync’s 2025 technical roadmap with the broader community. You can read the [full roadmap here](https://zksync.mirror.xyz/QG2Xr4lQdJTbyjeKftPVc6-pj2t9-H9WEGnvCcnusck).


### **[ZIP-4] Reduce the execution delay from 21 hours to 3 hours**

Sampka [published a resubmission of ZIP-2](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-4-reduce-the-execution-delay-from-21-hours-to-3-hours/373) about reducing the execution delay from 21 hours to 3 hours at the recommendation of the Security Council, after the original proposal could not be executed due to a tooling error. For more information about the error in executing, you can refer to [this post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/update-on-zip-1-decision-to-resubmit-proposal-following-tooling-issue/368). 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the technical roadmap shared by ZKsync and to find ways to align the DAO with the roadmap and work on initiatives that contribute towards it.

**When/where to catch us:**

Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for ZKsync yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **Scroll**

Although there aren’t a lot of new forum posts, there’s a lot of work happening behind the scenes in Scroll that will soon come to fruition.


### **Recap of Call #17**

Kineticsarah [published a recap](https://forum.scroll.io/t/recap-of-call-17-12-10-24/344) of call #17 that took place on December 10. Participants in the call reviewed the current state of the proposals and clarified expectations for this month to ensure preparedness for the upcoming community voting cycles. The proposals discussed were:



* Strategic Deliberation
* User Research
* Preference Signaling
* Data and Metrics Tools

The aforementioned proposals are being created in the context of the [co-creation cycle](https://forum.scroll.io/t/co-creation-cycle-ccc-check-in-post/313). You can find the [recording of the call here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1i07oVjKP3DnvRrxOP5BR1mWSxYQ5hsH_/view).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the proposals that are being created in the co-creation cycle and offer our help and feedback where useful.

**When/where to catch us:**

Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Scroll yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[#18 Reflection & Refining | Pre-Vote Check-In](meet.google.com/tfw-hfyz-qkp) on 18.12 at 12:30

[#19 - Results & Next Steps](meet.google.com/pev-mdfz-gkt) on 18.12 at 18:00