---
  title: "Governance Review #24"
  description: "Three weeks' worth of governance news packed in a 10-minute read."
  publishedOn: "2024-08-05"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

Optimism marches forward toward the creation of the first community-elected Security Council.

**Active Votes**

[Code of Conduct Council Elections](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/54063790427534137810643952875819462195520087349848607277556956345604303219862)- ends on August 7 at 18:00 pm UTC


### **Security Council Nominations**

The nominations for the Cohort A of the Security Council have [started coming in](https://gov.optimism.io/tag/cohort-a-nomination). The nomination period will run until August 14th, and for nominations to be considered valid, they need 8 Top 100 delegate approvals by August 19th.


### **Context for OP Labs Retro Funding Proposal**

Karl, Optimism’s co-founder and CEO at OP Labs, [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/context-for-op-labs-retro-funding-proposal/8642) explaining why OP Labs will request Retro Funding for the Custom Gas Token feature in the OP Stack round and how it relates to the vision for sustainable funding for open source and impact=profit. 

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We want to discuss the Security Council elections with prospective nominees and other delegates. We’re also keen to discuss ongoing mission proposals with the individuals or teams that are carrying them out and provide our feedback wherever needed.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

* [Grants Council Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/ndq-qmfx-vqb) on 5.8 at 04:00 pm
* [Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) on 7.8 at 4:30 pm


## **Arbitrum**

The ArbOS 31 upgrade is going through an onchain vote, our proposal is to take a break from the incentives program so we can analyze the results we’ve had so far is up on Snapshot, and all the active initiatives in the DAO have provided updates on their progress.


### **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[ArbOS 31 “Bianca” (Stylus, RIP-7212 Support, Nova Fee Router)](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/108288822474129076868455956066667369439381709547570289793612729242368710728616) - ends on August 15 at 14:16 UTC

[Arbitrum Multi-sig Support Service (MSS)](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/47904929527582233304785161920776863155691990219898799848510210794906211250836) - ends on August 16 at 00:12 UTC

**Temp-check**

[Incentives Detox Proposal](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x99b57df3577e8e6561f3549b057bd87fdb7e66f65a7c45fddf63d9cd62f993d8) - ends on August 9 at 00:00 UTC


### **ArbOS 31 “Bianca” - Activation of Arbitrum Stylus, RIP-7212 Support, & Nova Fee Router Proposal**

This AIP proposes the activation of ArbOS 31 on Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova. This ArbOS upgrade brings a number of improvements, including:


1. Activating Arbitrum Stylus to enable developers to build the next generation of Rust or C++ applications on the EVM.
2. New precompile for verifying the secp256r1 elliptical curve (as part of RIP-7212).
3. Change to fee collection on Arbitrum Nova, making it easier for ArbitrumDAO to manage and access the funds.

The aforementioned improvements have all been successfully passed through a Snapshot vote individually, and the Bianca upgrade merely bundles them together for the onchain vote. As part of the ARDC, [OpenZeppelin reviewed the proposal’s executable](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-arbos-31-proposal-review/26000) and only raised one point, which the [Arbitrum Foundation later addressed](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-arbos-31-bianca-activation-of-arbitrum-stylus-rip-7212-support-nova-fee-router-proposal/25904/8).


### **[RFC] ArbitrumDAO Governance Analytics Dashboard**

Curia [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-arbitrumdao-governance-analytics-dashboard/25869) proposing the development of an ArbitrumDAO Governance Analytics Dashboard to support ongoing governance initiatives, enhance transparency, and provide comprehensive insights into governance data. The proposal requests $50,000 (paid in ARB) to maintain the dashboard for six months, after which Curia will seek an additional $50,000 for another six months of maintenance.


### **[RFC] Transparency and Standardized Metrics for Orbit Chains**

Tobsch from Growthepie [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-transparency-and-standardized-metrics-for-orbit-chains-on-growthepie-xyz-allowing-data-driven-decision-making/25911) proposing the creation of standardized metrics for tracking Orbit chains. The proposal requests 275,200 ARB to cover the design and development of a dedicated Arbitrum Orbit Stack page over approximately five months. The costs would also cover the maintenance of the dashboard and the tracking of 20 Orbit chains for a year.


### **[RFC] Arbitrum Culture Council**

Thistle has [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-arbitrum-culture-council/26047/1) proposing the creation of a ‘Culture Council’ in Arbitrum to:


* Support and collaborate with Arbitrum native infrastructure to drive the development of a vibrant meme and culture coin ecosystem.
* Leverage the attention flywheel of a thriving meme and culture coin ecosystem to spread awareness of the Arbitrum ecosystem.
* Establish an organic community of engaged Arbitrum supporters across social media and on-chain, accelerating Arbitrum’s overall growth.

The proposal seeks a total of $266,000 USD worth of ARB for 6 months, with $200,000 of that going to grants toward incentivizing the use of MemeFi.


### **[Discussion] Should the DAO Default to using Shielded Voting for Snapshot Votes?**

Entropy [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/should-the-dao-default-to-using-shielded-voting-for-snapshot-votes/25884) to kickstart a conversation around adopting Shutter’s shielded voting as a default for Snapshot temperature checks. Shielded voting encrypts votes during the voting period and decrypts them only after the vote closes, mitigating bandwagon effects, voter apathy, and last-minute strategic voting.


### **[Discussion] Should the DAO Create COI & Self Voting Policies?**

Entropy [published a post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/should-the-dao-create-coi-self-voting-policies/26062) to restart [the conversation](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/self-voting-policy-discussion-arbitrumdao-constitution/20886) about creating self-voting and conflict-of-interest policies. The proposal outlines various options, ranging from maintaining the status quo to enforcing strict self-voting policies.


### **[ARDC] DAO Advocate - July Update**

As the DAO Advocate for the ARDC, [we (L2BEAT) published an update on the ARDC's work ](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/ardc-dao-advocate-communication-thread/22865/10)over the past month. In the update, you’ll find links to each individual deliverable published in the forum by the respective members of the ARDC.


### **Updates from ongoing initiatives in the DAO**

The following initiatives that are active in the DAO published an update


1. **[Areta: M&A Pilot Phase Outcome](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/areta-m-a-pilot-phase-outcome/26009)**
2. **[WakeUp Labs’ Sequencer Misbehavior Avoider Update](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/wakeup-labs-front-end-interface-to-force-transaction-inclusion-during-sequencer-downtime/25926/2)**
3. **[Expand Tally Support for the Arbitrum DAO](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/expand-tally-support-for-the-arbitrum-dao/22387/70)**
4. **[Arbitrum DAO Procurement Committee (ADPC)](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/adpc-update-thread/23361/14)**
5. **[Questbook DDA Program](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/questbook-dda-program-update-thread/23672/4)**
6. **[ThankARB](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/thank-arb-weekly-governance-updates/23606/16)**
7. **[Arbitrum Treasury Token Swap Program](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/proposal-non-constitutional-arbitrum-treasury-token-swap-program/23303/22?u=disruptionjoe)**
8. **[Onboarding Pilot Program (Final Report)](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/onboarding-pilot-program-final-report-milestone-3/26046)**
9. **[STEP II Steering Committee](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/step-ii-steering-committee/26074)**

The aforementioned initiatives (except No.8) and some others not on the above list also provided updates during the monthly open governance call. The [recording and transcript of the call are available here](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/17-arbitrum-open-governance-call-31-7-2024/25874/3).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are multiple open fronts in the DAO right now, from our incentives detox proposal to the ‘oversight’ of the currently active initiatives. We’re keen to discuss anything that might require our attention and doesn’t have it already.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Time in UTC)**



* [Developer Relations Fellowship](meet.google.com/znp-vzuf-xpo) on 5.8 at 10:00 pm
* [Business Development Fellowship](meet.google.com/oie-cbfa-ckc) on 6.8 at 3:00 pm
* [ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 8.8 at 2:00 pm
* [GCP Open Office - Weekly](meet.google.com/hjf-hrfg-gxg) on 8.8 at 4:00 pm
* [Social Media Fellowship](meet.google.com/ybo-huqw-jnr) on 8.8 at 5:00 pm


## **Uniswap**

There are 4 active proposals on Uniswap, with 1 currently going through a Snapshot vote.


### **Active Votes**

**Temp-check**

[Uniswap Onboarding Package - OKX Chain](https://snapshot.org/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0x4d070edcd39b24b67e219f8f0f6308083c28d510ed0a1ac4ed3fb8d5879f3b6b) - ends on August 7 at 22:59 UTC. 


### **[RFC] Forse for Uniswap Analytics for Uniswap Revitalization and Growth Program**

StableLabs[ published an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-forse-for-uniswap-analytics-for-uniswap-revitalization-and-growth-program/24327) proposing the onboarding of Forse (by StableLabs) as a data service provider to analyze the effectiveness of the [Uniswap Revitalization and Growth Program](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-revitalization-and-growth/22616). The proposal requests $70,000 worth of UNI to analyze the impact of the Uniswap Revitalization and Growth Program so far for 3 blockchains chosen by the Uniswap DAO, with 3 months of additional maintenance support and updates to analytics modules utilized in the live dashboard.


### **[RFC] Ethereum Foundation Attackathon Sponsorship**

Jayyu23 [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-ethereum-foundation-attackathon-sponsorship/24343) that seeks funding from the Uniswap DAO to support an Attackathon, a comprehensive security audit event designed to bolster the security of the Ethereum protocol. The Attackathon will consist of three phases: education, active code hunting, and result evaluation. The goal is to enhance the security of the Ethereum network, which in turn benefits the entire DeFi ecosystem, including Uniswap.

The Attackathon is seeking funding from multiple sources (e.g., other DAOs), and its 2 ‘sponsorship’ tiers are for 30+ ETH or 75+ ETH. For the exact scope of the Attackathon, it’s worth reading the proposal and the ‘Quick Links’ included within.


### **[RFC] Proposal to activate 2, 3, 4 bps fee-tiers on Base**

Aadams [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-proposal-to-active-2-3-4-bps-fee-tiers-on-base/24346) that proposes the creation of 2, 3, and 4 bps fee tiers on Base, undercutting Uniswap V3’s 5bps fee tier pool to remain competitive and win back market share that is being lost to Aerodrome. The proposal includes a comprehensive analysis and data supporting the claim that Uniswap is losing market share, particularly in the ETH/USDC pool.


### **[RFC] Deploy Uniswap v3 on X Layer**

Yohaan from OKX [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-deploy-uniswap-v3-on-x-layer/24307) that proposes the deployment of Uniswap v3 on X Layer with the additional deployment of an onboarding package to help bootstrap liquidity. We remind everyone that all such deployments of Uniswap v3 are optimistically approved, and the Uniswap Accountability Committee is there to confirm their legitimacy. As such, the [vote on Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/uniswapgovernance.eth/proposal/0x4d070edcd39b24b67e219f8f0f6308083c28d510ed0a1ac4ed3fb8d5879f3b6b) is only about the onboarding package and not the deployment itself.


### **Official Uniswap v3 Deployments List**

AbdullahUmar [published a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/official-uniswap-v3-deployments-list/24323) on behalf of the Uniswap Accountability Committee that documents all official deployments of Uniswap v3, their recognized front-ends, and the addresses of the relevant contracts for each.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the use of Forse by StableLabs with other delegates and interested parties to better understand the possibilities of using it, not only for the Uniswap Revitalization and Growth Program but also for other initiatives in the DAO.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Hop**

The new Hop Grants Committee is expected to begin soon, and the DAO is also considering potentially renewing the community's multisig signers.


### **Hop DAO Multisig Signers Renewal**

Francom, the elected ‘Head of DAO Operations,’ [highlighted](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/hop-dao-mult-sig-nominations/931/10) that the current community multisig signers have been on the multisig for the past 6+ months. With his comment, he also wanted to get the community’s sentiment on whether we should consider holding elections to renew the members.


### **Collaboration Request with Contrax Finance**

Soheeb from Contrax, a DeFi protocol, [published a post](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/collaberation-request-with-contrax-finance/1219) to discuss how Hop could potentially collaborate with Contrax. As suggested by Soheeb, at a high level, the goal would be to increase the exposure of both protocols to the communities of the other.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with delegates or other contributors how we can best support the grants program and the committee that will run point on it.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**



* [Hop Community Call](https://discord.com/events/789310208413270078/1268165128696758352) on 7.8 at 5:00 pm


## **Polygon**


### **PIP-45: PoS MRC-20 Token Symbol change**

H_Rooks, Polygon Labs' governance lead, [submitted a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-45-pos-mrc-20-token-symbol-change/19437) to suggest changing the token symbol for the native token of the Polygon PoS chain from “MATIC” to “POL.” The proposed modification will be implemented in the MATIC Token contract at the address” 0x00000000000000000000000000001010” and WMATIC": "0x0d500B1d8E8eF31E21C99d1Db9A6444d3ADf1270.


### **Thrive Polygon Update: July 23rd to 29th**

Thrive Polygon, the Consumer Crypto Grants Program for builders on Polygon, [published their weekly update](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/thrive-polygon-update-july-23rd-to-29th/19515) for the week between July 23rd and 29th. We remind everyone that after their launch in early June, and in partnership with Polygon’s Community Treasury Board, Thrive Protocol is distributing $800,000 in MATIC grants to top consumer crypto builders in web3.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re happy to discuss anything in Polygon that you think we should be aware of or involved with.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We were unaware of any significant governance-related news in Starknet over the last week. If you think we have missed something important, please let us know! \


**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all things Starknet and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

On Everclear, there’s a discussion around the election process and the structure of the Security Council. A working group is being formed to move the process along, facilitated by the Governance Task Force (GTF).


### **[RFC] Security Council Upgrade**

MinstroDolar [published an amendment](https://forum.connext.network/t/draft-proposal-security-council-upgrade/1180/2) to the proposal he [originally submitted in May](https://forum.connext.network/t/draft-proposal-security-council-upgrade/1180/2) regarding creating a process for electing and rotating the Everclear Security Council members. The main change in the amendment is removing the nominee selection process to avoid delegate fatigue from having too many votes. The nominee selection process might be introduced again if the interest in becoming a Security Council member becomes too big.

A [working group](https://t.me/+yDTk_VrCNyY5YTUx) is being established to finalize and introduce the election process for the next cohort(s) of the Security Council.


### **[RFC] BootNode - no-code xERC20 Launchpad**

Manu Garcia, the CEO of Bootnode, [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-bootnode-no-code-xerc20-launchpad/1241) seeking a grant from the DAO to develop a no-code xERC20 Launchpad—a platform designed to empower teams building protocols, networks, coins, and dApps to launch or upgrade their tokens effortlessly across multiple blockchains.

The total amount requested is 540,000 NEXT, which will be released upon completing 3 pre-determined milestones outlined in the proposal as follows:

Milestone 1 - 150,000 NEXT (28%)

Milestone 2 - 40,000 NEXT (7% for auditing)

Milestone 3 - 350,000 NEXT (65%) with a 6m linear vesting.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

The security council's landscape has changed with the transition from Connext (a bridging protocol) to Everclear (a rollup). We’re interested in discussing Everclear’s Security Council, both as the GTF's operation officer and as delegates.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

We’ve started participating in Wormhole’s governance, and we’ll include Wormhole in the governance review from now on.


### **L2BEAT Becomes a delegate on Wormhole**

L2BEAT’s governance team will start participating in Wormhole's governance. We [published our delegate platform on the forum](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/l2beat-delegate-platform/242), and we’ll soon share our delegate profile when it becomes available so people can delegate $W to us.


### **First Wormhole Community Call: August 13th, 2024**

GFX Labs [organized the first community call for Wormhole](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/wormhole-community-call-august-13th-2024/252) on August 13th at 13:00 UTC. The agenda is still TBD, but it will be shared in the forum post before the call.


### **Wormhole Improvement Proposal 0 (WIP-0)**

GFX Labs [submitted the first Wormhole Improvement Proposal (WIP)](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/wormhole-improvement-proposal-0-wip-0/238), which seeks to define the framework for all subsequent proposals. The WIP provides necessary rules, templates, processes, and social guidelines for the initial governance parameters of the Wormhole protocol and expectations for amending those parameters or otherwise taking action through decentralized governance.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other delegates or stakeholders in Wormhole, so if that’s you, please contact us. We do not have a dedicated Wormhole Office Hours call yet, but we’ll soon set one up as activity starts picking up.