---
  title: "Governance Review #38"
  description: "Things have been busy for DAOs this week."
  publishedOn: "2025-02-03"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---

## **Optimism**

A new protocol upgrade is being voted, and the Optimism Foundation publishes details for Retro Funding Missions.


## **Active Votes**

[Protocol Upgrade: Superchain Registry 2.0](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/71928632649116715308847337447543955907072794738294227130170691217045092512147) - ends on February 5 at 7:04 UTC


### **Announcing Guest Voter Participation in Season 7**

The Optimism Foundation has [created a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/announcing-guest-voter-participation-in-season-7/9623) outlining an experiment called the Guest Voter program, where the collective stakeholders can help decide which algorithm will be used to measure impact. The idea proposes that instead of focusing on who delivered impact (like in previous sessions), these Guest Voters will define what impact constitutes to the DAO. Additionally, the post, mentioned which is the criteria and eligible actors that can be part of this initiative.


### **Retro Funding: Onchain Builders Mission Details**

Optimism has [released the full details](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-onchain-builders-mission-details/9611) for its Onchain Builder Mission in Season 7, a Retro Funding program aimed at rewarding projects that foster cross-chain growth within the Superchain. Running from February 13 to July 31, this initiative will offer monthly grants (up to 8M OP) starting in March. To apply, projects must be registered in OP Atlas, have a verified contract on an eligible OP Chain, and meet minimum on-chain activity benchmarks (1,000 transactions, 420 qualified addresses, and 10 active days).


### **Retro Funding: Dev Tooling Mission Details**

Optimism has [announced](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-dev-tooling-mission-details/9598) its Retro Funding: Dev Tooling program for Season 7, dedicated to supporting open-source toolchains like compilers, libraries, and debuggers for Superchain developers. Running from February 5 to July 31, this initiative offers monthly grants (up to 8M OP) starting in March. Projects must be listed in OP Atlas, with GitHub repos verified; JavaScript and Rust packages require publication on npm or crates.io and at least 3 Superchain builders actively using them. Grants will be awarded based on a dynamic evaluation algorithm that tracks tool adoption, on-chain usage, and project importance to the broader developer ecosystem.


### **Retro Funding: Dev Tooling - Pairwise Ratings**

As part of the Retro Funding: Dev Tooling Mission, Jonas [posted](https://gov.optimism.io/t/retro-funding-dev-tooling-pairwise-ratings/9597) that the Collective will be experimenting with a new method to gauge each developer tool’s value. Onchain Builders and community experts will compare and rate their project dependencies using [Pairwise](https://www.pairwise.vote/). The goal is to spot better ways to measure each tool’s usefulness. If successful, the insights gathered will help fine-tune the algorithm that evaluates these tools in the future.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re curious to discuss the Optimism Missions details and the Guest Voter Participation conducted by the Foundation and see how we can utilize the information going forward or if there have been things the community has feedback on.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Builder Office Hours with the Foundation (Bi-Weekly)](meet.google.com/pop-kkus-bvf) on 5.2 at 17:30


## **Arbitrum**

A proposal for a new incentives program appears on the forum, and there’s discussion for changing the Delegate Incentive Program’s parameters.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[OpCo: A DAO-adjacent Entity for Strategy Execution](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/41351298371775353090222506531903916823291804644712693824312064183457809617851?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on February 13 at 5:54 p.m. UTC

[Non-Constitutional: Stable Treasury Endowment Program 2.0](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/13323456481927947871314500108227684550647495448005726995657704713229313956489?govId=eip155:42161:0x789fC99093B09aD01C34DC7251D0C89ce743e5a4) - ends on February 14 at 12:15 a.m. UTC

**Temp-check**

[Approve the Nova Fee Sweep Action](https://snapshot.box/#/s:arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xbd77b4faf99e06c7b4117e5dafaf5bb8f873bcffbb5c9d414a7ff745b6849f3a) - ends on February 7 at 04:30 UTC


### **Request to Increase the Stylus Sprint Committee’s Budget**

Entropy has [posted a proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/request-to-increase-the-stylus-sprint-committee-s-budget/28312) that requires an additional 4M ARB to fund a group of exceptional projects recommended by the Arbitrum Stylus Committee, which were initially excluded due to budget constraints. The original Stylus Sprint drew 147 applications, collectively seeking around 31.92 million ARB, far exceeding its 5 million ARB budget. Although the committee funded 17 projects, several strong proposals were ultimately declined due to limited resources.


### **[RFC] ARB Incentives: User Acquisition for dApps & Protocols**

Kamilgorski from Patterns has [posted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-rfc-arb-incentives-user-acquisition-for-dapps-protocols/28291) suggesting an iterative incentives program that builds on [IOSG’s proposal](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/arbs-wake-up-call-a-critical-pivot-is-necessary/27706/3), focusing on helping protocols run and measure both on- and off-chain user acquisition campaigns. The main goal is to establish a culture of measurable marketing in web3, enabling teams to calculate metrics like lifetime value (LTV), customer acquisition cost (CAC), and overall ROI for their campaigns. The requested amount to run this initiative is $3M.


### **[RFC] Amendment to the Delegate Incentives Program**

Thedevanshmehta [has posted a proposa](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-amendment-to-the-delegate-incentives-program/28331)l that seeks to make two modifications to the Delegate Incentive Program structure. First, increase the minimum VP requirement from 50k to 500k ARB. Second, delegates between 50k and 500k ARB wishing to become part of the program will need an endorsement from a participating delegate. The idea is to align the program more closely with industry standards, ensure that larger delegates are held accountable, and reduce potential abuse by smaller delegates seeking quick returns.


### **ARDC Communication Thread**

The new ARDC V2 has [officially kicked off](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/ardc-communication-thread/28279/1), featuring a new Supervisory Council that replaces the previous DAO Advocate role. The team has added specialized service providers for Risk, Security, and Research and is keeping everyone in the loop through a public Notion page, bi-weekly calls, and regular forum updates. Currently, they are focusing on analyzing sequencer revenue sustainability, analyzing DAO’s grants program, and enhancing the Security Council’s functionality.


### **AVI Pilot Community Engagement Report**

Arbitrum Ventures [posted an article](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/avi-pilot-community-engagement-report/28297/1) summarizing the community engagement efforts and key resources gathered during the AVI Pilot. It also outlines new transparency measures and explains how everyone can stay involved as the project enters its second phase. With alignment still taking shape, the main goal is to make the initiative’s objectives and structure clearer for the community.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the Stylus Sprint budget increase along with all RFC posted recently with other delegates and relevant stakeholders and understanding their view of how it will plug into the DAO as things are right now. We’re also curious to hear delegates’ views on the state of the DAO in general and what’s on their mind these days.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[21st GRC - Part A | Arbitrum Reporting Governance Call (GRC)](meet.google.com/ouo-uskg-niq) on 5.2 at 15:00

[21st GRC - Part B | Arbitrum Reporting Governance Call (GRC)](meet.google.com/ouo-uskg-niq) on 5.2 at 16:00

[Bi-Weekly ARDC Office Hours](meet.google.com/ras-qcrd-dqz) on 6.2 at 17:00


## **Uniswap**

Multiple new discussions are hitting the forum this week.


### **[RFC] Call to Ecosystem**

Alphagrowth [posted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-call-to-ecosystem/25209) that proposes co-marketing and promotion through the Uniswap Growth Program. The proposal outlines the process that potential collaborators need to follow to apply and streamline this co-creation experiment. If you’re a project interested in the Uniswap Growth Program, you can [apply here](https://forms.gle/YLWfbiCEzuT9YtoD6).


### **[RFC] Public Access to ExploreStats API Endpoint**

Neozaru has [posted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-public-access-to-explorestats-api-endpoint/25219) suggesting public access to the ExploreStats API Endpoint, which currently supports the [Uniswap Positions page](https://app.uniswap.org/positions) by delivering critical data on multi-chain and multi-version pools. Opening this endpoint to everyone, like developers, analysts, and DeFi enthusiasts, would simplify the process of integrating new dapps, wallets, and analytics platforms. As a consequence, it could unlock a broader range of insights, from advanced pool metrics to more detailed performance tracking.


### **[RFC] Deploy Uniswap V3 on Abstract**

Rory has [posted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-deploy-uniswap-v3-on-abstract/25206) that proposes the creation of a canonical Uniswap V3 deployment on Abstract. According to the proposal, all relevant Uni v3 contracts for development have already been deployed.


### **[RFC] Programmable incentives with Metrom**

0xVenky from Metrom is [proposing a new way](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/rfc-programmable-incentives-with-metrom/25197) to handle Uniswap’s liquidity rewards. Metrom’s platform ties incentives to real-world targets (like hitting specific TVL goals or focusing on narrower ranges in Uniswap V3), aiming to save protocols up to 20–50% on emissions while also stabilizing liquidity. Metrom plans to offer a 0% fee until mid-2025, then charge only a 10% performance fee on any emissions saved after that. Their goal is to make liquidity rewards more efficient, targeted, and sustainable as Uniswap continues expanding across multiple chains.


### **Uniswap Growth Program Updates - AlphaGrowth**

Alphagrowth [posted an update](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-growth-program-updates-alphagrowth/25205) highlighting the progression of the Growth Program by securing over ~$800k in incentives from multiple blockchain ecosystems like Optimism, ZKsync, and Boba. There are also discussions with other networks like Saga, Fractal, and Etherlink.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing these RFCs and other updates with other delegates and hearing their thoughts on it.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)** \
[Tally Office Hours]( https://meet.google.com/sfq-oyyo-idw) on 4.2 at 16:00


## **Hop**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Hop’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Hop Community Call](https://discord.gg/ESWUdKNqdx) - on 5.2 at 18:00


## **Polygon**

Polygon published an RFP for analytics service providers and a technical proposal.


### **Polygon Ecosystem Analytics Services (RFP)**

0xJustice from PolygonLabs Governance team [created an RFP](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/polygon-ecosystem-analytics-services-rfp/20557) with the objective of qualified entities to provide analytics service for the community grants program and general ecosystem growth efforts. The priority is to measure and evaluate the on-chain and off-chain impact of community grant recipients, grant allocators, and general ecosystem growth initiatives.


### **PIP-57 Add migrateTo() in the POL Migration Contract**

SimonDos from Polygon Labs [has posted](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-57-add-migrateto-in-the-pol-migration-contract/20582) a proposal to add the migrateTo function to the POL migration contract. This new function will allow users to migrate MATIC to POL while specifying a recipient address different from their own. It is important to mention that it is mentioned that only users with sufficient MATIC balances will be able to use it

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things in Polygon we should be aware of or involved with, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

Starknet’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We are always interested in discussing Starknet and what’s happening there with other interested stakeholders. If that’s you, please reach out!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

An RFC was posted through which Karma aims to renew their current Delegate Dashboard to a new one.


### **[RFC] Renewal of Karma Everclear Delegate Dashboard**

Mmurthy from Karma [has posted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-renewal-of-karma-everclear-delegate-dashboard/1350) to renew its Everclear delegate dashboard service, which has been helping tokenholders find, evaluate, and delegate voting power across all Everclear networks. In this new renewal, Karma will introduce more robust reporting and analytics, possibly integrate its AI-powered DAO insights tool at no cost, and offer a delegate incentive system designed to compensate active delegates. The total budget to fund this initiative is $25k.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in hearing from other delegates on whether or not they’ve found the Karma dashboard to be useful and whether or not it makes sense to renew it.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

Wormhole’s governance hasn’t seen any new developments over the last week. If you believe we might have missed something, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **Lisk**

Lisk Foundation publishes a proposal for a Seasons strategy for the DAO.


### **Lisk DAO Seasons Strategy**

The Lisk Foundation [submitted a proposal](https://forum.lisk.com/t/lisk-dao-seasons-strategy/192) that proposes the adoption of a Lisk DAO Seasons Strategy. The goal of this strategy is to create a focused and structured process at the start of each season, enabling the Lisk DAO to achieve specific objectives. This approach is quite similar to the process done by the [Optimism Seasons](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-guide-to-season-7/9293).  Additionally, it was suggested that each season should last around 4-5 months, during which responsible parties must present the results of their efforts and the impact generated throughout the season.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We are interested in discussing the new Lisk DAO strategy presented by the Foundation with other delegates and interested parties.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.


## **ZkSync**

Several new proposals being discussed in the DAO this week.


### **[Draft] Prepare ZKsync for ZK Gateway**

StanislavBreadless from Matter Labs [posted a draft](https://forum.zknation.io/t/draft-prepare-zksync-for-zk-gateway/490/1) that proposes an upgrade to prepare the ZKsync protocol for the upcoming ZK Gateway upgrade. The main idea is to align ZKsync’s existing contracts with ZK Gateway’s requirements. This will guarantee a seamless integration process and reduce the complexity of upgrading and deploying ZK Gateway. Also, the proposal will introduce some improvements to custom Data Availability (DA) and bridge development, fostering greater flexibility for ZK Chains and developers.


### **[Draft] Protocol Governor Upgrade**

StanislavBreadless from Matter Labs [posted a draft](https://forum.zknation.io/t/draft-protocol-governor-upgrade/487) that suggests modifications to the Protocol Governor parameters and the redeployment of a contract related to the protocol upgrade mechanism for ZKsync. The proposed changes include reducing the voting delay from 7 to 3 days and shortening the quorum extension from 7 to 2 days. Additionally, the ProtocolUpgradeHandler contract will be redeployed as an upgradeable version, allowing for future implementations and modifications of new contracts.


### **ZKGPS: Advancing Accountability in Proposal Execution**

Theshelb from the ZKSync Gov team [has introduced a proposal](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zkgps-advancing-accountability-in-proposal-execution/480/1) outlining the ZK Governance Program Systems (ZKGPS), a Cayman-based ownerless foundation designed to handle specific legal responsibilities. This entity would oversee KYC verification for individuals and entities receiving ZK tokens through governance proposals, as well as manage contractual agreements with service providers and SteerCo members. ZKGPS was initially bootstrapped through an allocation of 433K ZK from the first TPP, specifically ZKsync Ignite. To continue providing services to the zkSync governance ecosystem, ZKGPS may seek additional funding from future TPPs that benefit from its services. However, its support may not be necessary for all TPPs.


### **ZKSync Ignite Update and Period 3 Allocations**

0xk3y from OpenBlock Labs [has posted](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-ignite-update-and-period-3-allocations-feb-2nd-2025/503) an update about the ZKSync Ignite program. The post includes insights from Period 2 that show that around 9.56M ZK on incentives were allocated to 74 pools. The post also covers the strategy for period 3 as well as the allocations per pool.


### **Summer 2024 Token Accountability MVP Program Summary**

Rafa from ZKsync [shared a summary](https://forum.zknation.io/t/summer-2024-token-accountability-mvp-program-summary/477?u=manugotsuka) of the Summer 2024 Token Accountability MVP Program, highlighting how the demos played a crucial role in validating the Token Governor, which launched on September 12, 2024, and confirming the design of the Capped Minter V1. The insights gained, along with feedback from the [TPP-1] ZKsync Ignite Program, directly shaped the design specifications for the ZK Capped Minter V2, which was completed in October 2024.


### **Matter Labs Q1 Planning - a high-level overview**

Anthony Rose from Matter Labs [created a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/matter-labs-q1-planning-high-level-overview/495) that outlines the Matter Labs Q1 Plans for ZKsync. Some of the topics mentioned are progress related to the EVM equivalence, the launch of Gateway, interoperability to ZK chains, proof generation decentralization, and expanded developer tooling. Also, they invited the community to give them feedback.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There’s a lot of discussion happening in the DAO right now, ranging from adding new changes in the governor and the new ZKGPS to the high-level strategy by Matter Labs for Q1 of 2025. If these are things you’d like to discuss, we want to hear from you!

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Standing ZKsync Delegate Call](https://meet.google.com/txe-trwh-zha) on 4.2 at 17:00


## **Scroll**

DAostar has published a research post about Delegate Incentives Programs (DIP) from different DAOs as a segway for discussing a DIP in Scroll.


### **Delegate Incentive Programs [DAOstar Research]**

Sam_mccarthy from DAOstar [has posted](https://forum.scroll.io/t/delegate-incentive-programs-daostar-research/470/1) research that analyzed the structure of the different Delegate incentives programs (DIP) in several other chains. The report outlines metrics such as spending, costs per delegate, duration, and other metrics. This post aims to share this digested knowledge with all DAO members to make informed decisions about how to design a future Scroll Delegate Incentive Program.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing what a potential delegate incentive program would look like for Scroll, and whether it makes sense to implement one at this time.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [L2BEAT Governance Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 4 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Local Nodes Malaysia](meet.google.com/etc-iyxj-vfn) - on 4.2 at 01:00

[Grant Program Discussion](meet.google.com/nug-uygx-hbd) - on 5.2 at 12:30

[Delegate Training Discussion](meet.google.com/vyg-rrfx-vgt) - on 5.2 at 18:00