---
  title: "Governance Review #32"
  description: "We’re back from Devcon with a review of what has been happening in governance."
  publishedOn: "2024-11-26"
  authorId: anastassis-oikonomopoulos
---



## **Optimism**

Optimism concludes its 6th Season and it’s preparing for Season 7.


### **Season 7: Guide to Season 7**

With Season 7 right around the corner, the Optimism Foundation [published a comprehensive guide](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-guide-to-season-7/9293/1) with all the information you’ll need. As noted in the post, in Season 7, all contributors to the Collective will be focused on a core pillar of our [Superchain Product Vision: Interoperability](https://gov.optimism.io/t/superchain-product-vision/8988). Season 7 will start on January 16th and will run until June 11th.


### **Upgrade Proposal #11: Holocene Network Upgrade**

Dragan, a technical program manager at OP labs, [published a proposal](https://gov.optimism.io/t/upgrade-proposal-11-holocene-network-upgrade/9313/1) for network upgrade #11, Holocene. The upgrade includes three changes:



* **Holocene block derivation**: a set of changes that render the derivation pipeline stricter and simpler, but also improve worst-case scenarios for Fault Proofs and Interoperability.
* **EIP-1559 configurability: **The elasticity and denominator EIP-1559 parameters become configurable via the SystemConfig L1 contract, allowing gas target and gas limit to be independently configured.
* **MIPS contract upgrade: **Updates to support additional calls made by the new op-program version.


### **Season 7: Reflection Period Guide**

The Optimism Foundation [published a guide](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-reflection-period-guide/9299) for delegates to navigate through the upcoming ‘Reflection Period’ ahead of Season 7. Within the post, you will find key dates to watch out for, as well as a roundup of all the different retrospective posts from the Collective’s various councils and commissions.



* [Code of Conduct Council - Retrospective Season 6](https://gov.optimism.io/t/code-of-conduct-council-season-6-retrospective/)
* [Developer Advisory Board - Retrospective Season 6](https://gov.optimism.io/t/developer-advisory-board-season-6-retrospective/)
* [Grants Council - Retrospective Season 6](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-6-grants-council-final-and-retrospective-report/)
* [Anticapture Commission - Retrospective Season 6](https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission-season-6-retrospective/9278)
* [Security Council - Retrospective Season 6](https://gov.optimism.io/t/security-council-season-6-retrospective/)


### **Season 7: Retro Funding Missions**

In the context of Season 7, the [Optimism Foundation announced](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-7-retro-funding-missions/9295) that in 2025, Retro Funding will focus on data-driven impact measurement with a human-centered approach. Next year, Retro Funding will focus on Dev Tooling (developer tools like libraries and debuggers), Onchain Builders (projects driving cross-chain activity), and OP Stack Contributions.

For more information on Retro Funding 2025, we encourage you to read the [full blog post](https://optimism.mirror.xyz/zWlA9LROAzRee5BFqbquYHawmruKzLmXbONp_hcCwE4).


### **Season 6: Retro Governance Participation Rewards**

With Season 6 ending, the Optimism Foundation [published a post](https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-6-retro-governance-participation-rewards/9297) outlining the criteria for distributing retroactive governance participation awards to active delegates. The criteria include activity in the token house, participation in the reflection period, activity in the anticapture commission, and more. A list of all eligible delegates will be published at a later date.


### **Cycle 30 Grants final roundup**

Gonna, the Grants Council lead, [published a roundup for Cycle 30](https://gov.optimism.io/t/cycle-30-grants-final-roundup/9291). Of the 91 applications the council received, 74 made it to the final review, with only 22 of them getting approved. You can find the full list in the post.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing feedback for Season 6, as well as thoughts for the upcoming Season 7 and the information made available so far by the Foundation.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Optimism Office Hours](meet.google.com/pem-jzrh-gkq) every Tuesday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[govNERD Office Hours](https://meet.google.com/epc-dkgs-pfk) on 28.11 at 19:00


## **Arbitrum**

Several new RFCs hit the Arbitrum DAO forum for delegates’ consideration and discussion.


## **Active Votes**

**Temp-check**

[Restitution For Extensively Delayed ArbitrumDAO Minigrant Winners](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x76ebc8056e283411cfed5cefad171e245b56fe3bc3d36d702244aab3faae689c) – ends on November 28 at 12:00 UTC

[Hackathon Continuation Program](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xf922eb584e616475100222fba40b0d6574ffc113bbb5b92b76e40bb2a91e45dc) – ends on November 30 at 23:54 UTC


### **[RFC] Activate the Arbitrum community and market Arbitrum DAO**

Zer8 [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/mission-activate-the-arbitrum-community-and-market-arbitrum-dao-arbitrum-fellowships-proposal/27475) that aims to increase the quality and quantity of communication for all Arbitrum DAO initiatives through a focused three-month experimental phase with two main objectives:



1. Become the go-to resource for everything related to Arbitrum DAO and its initiatives.
2. Develop a permissionless approach for promoting DAO proposals, initiatives, and programs.

The proposal requests a total budget of 70,000 ARB for the 3-month period, which will be split between the six contributors based on their hours and respective responsibilities.


### **Hackathon Continuation Program**

Danielo [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/hackathon-continuation-program/27492) that proposes the Arbitrum DAO co-fund a program in partnership with RnDAO to invest in and support the three winners of the ‘[Arbitrum CollabTech Hackathon](https://www.rndao.io/blog/post/arbitrum-collabtech-hackathon-impact-report):’



* **Contribo:** matching talent to tasks is a foundational need in any collaboration. Contribo is tackling the right parts of this well, focusing on smooth UX and simplicity yet strong onchain components.
* **Signals:** A much-needed tool for DAOs to easily define priorities and transform chat-group noise into meaningful proposals. It also provides additional utility for native tokens.
* **Separated Powers:** A more flexible approach to role definition, well architected. Could advance automation in onchain organizations significantly and provide a system for reducing the overhead of checks and balances.

The proposal requests a total of $213,780 in ARB, $124,000 of which will be used for capital investments into the projects for a 2-phase program over 6 months.


### **[RFC] Arbitrum Onboarding V2: A Governance Bootcamp**

RikaGoldberg [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-arbitrum-onboarding-v2-a-governance-bootcamp/27546) on behalf of the Onboarding Working Group to request $178,138 paid in ARB for the working group to run a V2 of Arbitrum DAO Onboarding Program for 6 months. 

The proposed V2 program will function like a Governance Bootcamp, and the Onboarding Working Group will act akin to a recruitment agency, sourcing and training a select group of new DAO contributors. Those contributors will go through workshops facilitated by the Onboarding Working Group, with the goal of eventually connecting them to a protocol to assist with governance work.


### **[RFC] Arbitrum D.A.O. (Domain Allocator Offerings) Grant Program - Season 3**

JoJo [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-constitutional-rfc-arbitrum-d-a-o-domain-allocator-offerings-grant-program-season-3/27584) to propose a third season of the Domain Allocators Offerings Grant Program that would run for a full year, encompassing the existing four domains (Protocols, Education/Community and Events, Dev Tooling, and Gaming) while potentially adding a fifth domain (Orbit).

The requested budget is $1,500,000 per domain, for a total of $6,000,000 excluding operational expenses which come out at approximately $622,200. If an ‘Orbit’ domain is added, the proposal will request an additional $750,000 to fund it with, along with another $27,800 for the compensation of the domain allocator.


### **[RFC] Partner with ETH Bucharest 2025 - Eastern Europe’s Leading Ethereum Conference and Hackathon**

Ostanescu.eth [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/partner-with-eth-bucharest-2025-eastern-europe-s-leading-ethereum-conference-and-hackathon/27606) seeking to invite Arbitrum DAO to sponsor[ ETH Bucharest 2025](https://linktree.com/ethbucharest) for $67,950. The proposed sponsorship package includes, but is not limited to, the following:



* 1-Hour talk slot on the main stage to showcase Arbitrum
* A workshop session
* 25m<sup>2 </sup>exhibition space at a prime location
* Brand exposure throughout the venue
* Ten general tickets and 5 VIP tickets
* 50% off of additional tickets for as many as needed


### **[RFC] User Research: Why do people even build on Arbitrum, anyway?**

Danielo, in collaboration with Alex Lumley, [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/non-consitutional-user-research-why-do-people-even-build-on-arbitrum-anyway/27608) that proposes to do intensive research with builders and entrepreneurs to establish a deep understanding of the features important to these critical members of our ecosystem. This research will help identify why Arbitrum has become a technology of choice among its users, where its weaknesses are, and promising directions for future development.

The proposed budget is $38,600 for the research to be confined in Arbitrum or $58,400 if it is to extend to 2 other ecosystems. The expected timeline for completion of the research is 3 months, with preliminary data starting to be available from the 4th week onwards. 


### **[RFC] Designing and Operating the Reporting and Information Function**

Alex Lumley [submitted an RFC](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/designing-and-operating-the-reporting-and-information-function/27609/1) that proposes establishing a dedicated reporting and tracking framework that aligns with the DAO’s long-term goals. At this time, the proposal doesn’t include a specific timeline, list of contributors, or requested budget.

The proposed approach includes establishing a responsible party for the continued Arbitrium Governance Operations work, specifically the reporting and regular proposal calls and GRC calls, and bootstrapping a working group to refine and analyze DAO information flows to improve and scale information accessibility across the DAO.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are several new proposals and ongoing initiatives that we’re interested in discussing further with delegates and other stakeholders. We are also keen to discuss the bigger picture and how everything can fit together in a coherent way.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all of the above and more during our [Arbitrum Office Hours](meet.google.com/jkj-nnop-arc) every Thursday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[DeFi Education Fund Community Call](meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) on 26.11 at 18:00

[TAU Labs - ARDC Applicant Deliverables](meet.google.com/krs-qufp-ind) on 26.11 at 12:00

[Nethermind Research - ARDC Application Deliverables Walkthrough](https://meet.google.com/dki-ytjv-hau) on 27.11 at 13:00

[Revelo Intel - ARDC Applicant Deliverables](meet.google.com/kfc-rkip-qvo) on 27.11 at 15:00

[Arbitrum Incentives Working Group](meet.google.com/jqp-ppsq-xnq) on 27.11 at 17:00

[ADPC Call](meet.google.com/bju-dnib-sif) on 28.11 at 15:00

[GCP Open Office - Weekly](https://meet.google.com/nwx-vkeq-rhq) on 28.11 at 16:00


## **Uniswap**

Uniswap Foundation, in collaboration with the DAO, has launched a security subsidy fund.


## **Active Votes**

**Onchain**

[Supporting Tally’s Development and Enhancements for Uniswap DAO Governance](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/uniswap/proposal/74) – ends on November 29 at 8:30 UTC


### **Uniswap Foundation Security Fund (UFSF): Announcement Thread**

Fin from Areta [published a post](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-foundation-security-fund-ufsf-announcement-thread/24878/2) to announce the Uniswap Foundation Security Fund (UFSF), which started accepting applications on November 11 and will end on November 29.

Projects building Uniswap v4 hooks can apply for a subsidy of up to 100% for security audit services from a list of whitelisted providers.


### **Uniswap Foundation: Summary Q3’2024 Financials**

Nataliara from the Uniswap Foundation, continuing with their series of financial transparency updates to the community, [published the unaudited summary of financials](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/uniswap-foundation-summary-q3-2024-financials/24899) for the third quarter of 2024.


### **[RFC] ZERO Application for Canonical Uniswap V3 Deployment**

Ptrwtts [submitted an RFC](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/zero-application-for-canonical-uniswap-v3-deployment/24893), the purpose of which was to apply for canonical Uniswap V3 deployment on ZERϴ. The proposal doesn’t request an onboarding package and therefore is subject to optimistic approval after 7 days.


### **October ‘24 Uniswap Report**

Oku [published their latest Uniswap Monthly Report](https://gov.uniswap.org/t/october-24-uniswap-report/24926), summarizing protocol metrics for October 2024.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things on Uniswap you think we should be aware of or involved in, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Uniswap Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[Uniswap Foundation Community Call [November]](https://lu.ma/e/evt-IcR9YkHTWKLcqaz?pk=g-hFI3tsnh4hFXizD) on 26.11 at 17:00

[DEF Community Call](meet.google.com/kjb-tgss-skw) on 26.11 at 18:00


## **Hop**

Hop’s grant program starts seeing some inbound.


### **Hop Grants Program Applications**

Several applications have been submitted to the forum for the Grants Council’s consideration. Even though the applications won’t be put up to a DAO vote and instead will be processed by the council, we still encourage delegates to review them and offer their feedback and input, if any.



* [Automated Community Call Minute Taking](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-automated-community-call-minute-taking/1253) - 135,000 HOP
* [Create a high-quality commercial video series that drives awareness to Hop and highlights USDC routes](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-create-a-high-quality-commercial-video-series-that-drives-awareness-to-hop-and-highlights-usdc-routes/1271) - 350,000 HOP
* [Unlocking Community Power: Hop Protocol x Holgant IRL Innovation](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-unlocking-community-power-hop-protocol-x-holgant-irl-innovation/1272) - 400,000-800,000 HOP
* [Hop Protocol Metrics Dashboard](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-hop-protocol-metrics-dashboard/1263) - $15,000 (~750,000 HOP)
* [Hop V2 Analytics Dashboard](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-hop-v2-analytics-dashboard/1273) - $5,000 (~250,000 HOP)

We would like to remind you that you can [apply for the Hop Grant Program here](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/hop-exchange-debuts-new-grants-program-and-seeks-request-for-proposals/1246).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things on Hop you think we should be aware of or involved in, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Hop Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Polygon**

Polygon launches System Smart Contracts (SSC) and signal voting for staked POL token-holders among other news.


### **Polygon announces System Smart Contracts (SSC)**

Enabled by the Governance Hub, [Polygon announced System Smart Contracts (SSC)](https://x.com/0xPolygon/status/1855792663095882181), an empowered decision-making framework, with the goal to further decentralize technical governance over Polygon networks, empowering users and builders to influence core development of tech.

To learn more about SSC and participate in the next chapter of decentralizing community governance for Polygon networks, we encourage you to read the [full announcement here](https://polygon.technology/blog/participate-in-the-next-chapter-of-decentralizing-community-governance-for-polygon-networks?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=blog).


### **(Season 2) Grant Allocator – Call for Applications**

The [Community Treasury Board (CTB) is inviting](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/season-2-grant-allocator-call-for-applications/19969) protocols, accelerators, and communities to join Season Two of the Polygon Community Grants Program as independent Grant Allocators. These Grant Allocators will play a pivotal role in distributing up to 35M POL.

You can [apply here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd7WXiCq7avNFgZNpOdzNpoJpBNNaU1OhfA8qDyyyHnKQLHtg/viewform).


### **[RFC] Staked Tokenholder Signalling**

H_Rooks, the Governance Lead at Polygon Labs, [published a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-50-staked-tokenholder-signalling/19974) introducing an initial decision-making framework for PoS Stakers to participate in signaling PIPs related to system smart contract upgrades in Polygon networks.

The framework enables a three-stage process for all regular proposals: 



1. Following the regular PIP flow, which includes the PPGC, a majority consensus from the Protocol Council is reached
2. The community of PoS stakers and their delegates review the proposal and may signal vote approval or veto
3. The Protocol Council must confirm the proposal for on-chain execution or decide not to execute it


### **[RFC] ZK Checkpointing**

Manav from Polygon Labs [submitted a proposal](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/pip-49-zk-checkpointing/20172) introducing a new mechanism to use zero-knowledge proofs to replace the existing checkpointing mechanism on Polygon PoS. The primary aim of this is to reduce gas costs for settlement on Ethereum, while still achieving the same behavior.


### **Introducing the Delegate Incentive Program (DIP) for Polygon**

Fin from Areta [published a post](https://forum.polygon.technology/t/introducing-the-delegate-incentive-program-dip-for-polygon/20156/1) announcing a Delegate Incentive Program (DIP) for Polygon delegates. The proposed timeline is 12 months, with applications from interested delegates starting on November 20 (cutoff on December 4th). The cohort size is going to be 15-20 delegates, who will split $20,000 (in POL) monthly.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other delegates about the upcoming governance work in Polygon, as well as the proposed Delegate Incentive Program.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Polygon Office Hours](meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Starknet**

Starknet’s governance is slowly but surely picking up the pace.


### **Accountability and Incentives for Consensus**

Josef Widder [published a post](https://community.starknet.io/t/accountability-and-incentives-for-consensus/115031) discussing the implementation of a decentralized Starknet using a consensus mechanism based on the Tendermint algorithm. The post highlights the challenges of running Proof-of-Stake (PoS) nodes, including security and availability concerns, and proposes incentivizing node operators to maintain proper configurations. To support this, the post emphasizes the need to collect evidence of provable misbehaviors, particularly "double vote" and "amnesia" attacks, which are critical for system stability. To address these issues, there are mild penalties proposed for such misbehaviors to encourage reliability while fostering a discussion on potential adaptations to Tendermint.


### **SNIP25: Starknet security council V1.0**

Henri Lieutad from the Starknet Foundation [submitted a proposal](https://community.starknet.io/t/snip25-starknet-security-council-v1-0/115060/1) that seeks to introduce a Security Council to Starknet, which would be responsible for safeguarding Starknet’s security. The council will be composed of 12 security and blockchain experts and professionals that will be appointed and compensated ($3,000/mo) by the Starknet Foundation from an administrative perspective.


### **SNIP - Starknet Monetary Committee**

Following up on the vote on staking, Henri Lieutad from the Starknet Foundation [published a SNIP](https://community.starknet.io/t/snip-tbd-starknet-monetary-committee/115064) that proposes the introduction of a Monetary Committee, which will consist of four firms who will jointly operate a multi-sig. 

The Monetary Committee will be responsible for proposing and enacting changes to the layer 2 token admin contract of the Starknet staking mechanism, including changes to the following app parameters:



* Minimum staking amount;
* Yearly inflation cap; and
* Withdrawal delay.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

If there are things on Starknet you think we should be aware of or involved in, please let us know.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Starknet Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/avz-chuc-ksa) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Everclear**

Exciting news is coming for Everclear’s token, with vbCLEAR Season 1 starting soon and distributing up to 6,25M NEXT in incentives.


### **[RFC] vbCLEAR Season 1**

Veildev [submitted a proposal](https://forum.connext.network/t/rfc-vbclear-season-1/1330) detailing the parameters for launching Everclear’s token system on December 6, 2024. Season 1 will run for 3 months and will distribute up to 6,250,000 NEXT in incentives for solvers and stakers.

All NEXT stakers and solvers or users of Everclear who fill intents and contribute to the protocol’s volume growth will be eligible to receive incentives. The proposal [successfully passed an executable vote](https://snapshot.org/#/dao.connext.eth/proposal/0x92aaead8d6231df3ea56d88bc8396b59c8aec6a9a07e8489f1be52664318279f) and will soon begin. 


### **[RFC] Implement Lucid’s Multi-Bridge Module for NEXT Token Cross-Chain Asset Transfers**

Tony from LucidFi [submitted an RFC](https://forum.connext.network/t/proposal-implement-lucid-s-multi-bridge-module-for-next-token-cross-chain-asset-transfers/1333/1) that proposes implementing Lucid’s Multi-Bridge module to enhance Everclear’s cross-chain asset transfer capabilities. The proposal doesn’t request any upfront money as Lucid uses a pay-as-you-use model and charges 0.3% fee on cross-chain transfers (paid in NEXT) and a small relayer fee (paid in ETH). As for implementation, it can happen as quickly as early December, contingent on the proposal being approved by delegates.


### **Everclear Governance Task Force - Communication Thread Update**

MinistroDolar, the Program Manager for Everclear’s GTF, [published a biweekly update](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-governance-task-force-communication-thread/1251/12) covering the Governance Task Force’s actions over the 2 weeks from November 4 to November 18. The update also includes notable discussions & votes in Everclear, as well as important ecosystem news.


### **Everclear DAO Financial Updates from DAOplomats**

DAOplomats, the Treasury Officer for Everclear’s GTF, [published](https://forum.connext.network/t/everclear-dao-financial-updates-from-daoplomats/1254/3) their third monthly financial report, covering October. You can read the [full report here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQnwcleRZlelx6phNYj76Bsr_kcR9mdYcOPJCEZ8cbG-FGy7VxwUII5FUg9TJXqZkAn04sb-FPhHe-o/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000&slide=id.p).

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the vbCLEAR Season 1 with other delegates and relevant stakeholders.

**When/where to catch us:**

You can find us to discuss all the above and more during our [Everclear Office Hours](http://meet.google.com/twm-jafw-esn) every Friday at 3 pm UTC.


## **Wormhole**

There haven’t been any new proposals or notable discussions in Wormhole other than the community call that took place on November 4.


### **Community Call: November 4**

The recording from the community call on November 4 [has been published](https://forum.wormhole.com/t/community-call-november-4-10-00-est/333/2) for anyone who couldn’t make it.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing with other Wormhole delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Wormhole yet, we encourage you to [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **Lisk**

Lisk announced an airdrop, a proposal is being resubmitted after failing to meet quorum, and there’s a proposal to increase the voting window.


### **Lisk announces airdrop**

Lisk[ took to X (formerly Twitter) to announce](https://x.com/LiskHQ/status/1859643622125166785) their latest airdrop of a total of 15,000,000 LSK. Designed for all Lisk users, the airdrop enables users to explore the Lisk ecosystem by earn points for completing simple tasks.

You can visit the portal and [learn more about the Lisk airdrop here](https://portal.lisk.com/airdrop).


### **Extend the Lisk DAO voting period**

Mona [published a proposal](https://forum.lisk.com/t/extend-the-lisk-dao-voting-period/136) to increase the voting period from one week to two weeks. This change is proposed in an attempt to mitigate against voters simply not participating because they didn’t have the time to consider and/or didn’t notice the proposal early enough. One such case was the latest vote [failing to reach quorum](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/lisk/proposal/54877162608865485949236506206473251533501958173944470263529048742847872633779).


### **Redistribution of Unclaimed Hodlerdrop Tokens(with improvements)**

Following [a vote that failed to reach quorum](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/lisk/proposal/54877162608865485949236506206473251533501958173944470263529048742847872633779), Gremlin [resubmitted a proposal](https://forum.lisk.com/t/redistribution-of-unclaimed-hodlerdrop-tokens-with-improvements/135) that suggests redistributing the unclaimed tokens from the hodlerdrop airdrop proportionally to the airdrop already received by participants.

**Discuss with L2BEAT:**

We’re interested in discussing with other Lisk delegates or stakeholders and learning more about the areas in which we could be involved. Although we do not have dedicated Office Hours for Lisk yet, we encourage you to [message us](t.me/sinkas), and we’ll find time to chat.


## **ZkSync**


## Active Votes

**Onchain**

[[ZIP-001] Protocol Defense](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/65279190639255234983262793933610337632105558452437174222496188099735337695645?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) – ends on December 2 at 17:07 UTC

[[ZIP-002] Reduce the execution delay from 21 hours to 3 hours](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/zksync/proposal/26668700835266663714039744560208859829224989416465690918246196287077853242?govId=eip155:324:0x76705327e682F2d96943280D99464Ab61219e34f) – ends on December 9 at 13:12


### **[ZIP-001] Protocol Defense**

Koloz from Matter Labs [submitted a proposal](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-001-protocol-defense/201) to deploy quality-of-life improvements to ZKsync Era, including:



* **Custom Errors**: Replace all string-based reverts with custom errors improving gas usage insights into reverts.
* **Solhint Rules:** Implement stricter solhint rules, including but not limited to enforcing consistent naming conventions, requiring explicit visibility for state variables and functions, and limiting function complexity.
* **Floating Point Compiler Versions:** Implement floating compiler versions for interfaces and libraries so they can be used within ecosystem projects without defining an exact compiler version.
* **Gas Optimizations: **Implement minor gas optimizations, such as caching array lengths in loops, using unchecked blocks for arithmetic operations where overflow/underflow is impossible, and packing variables to use fewer storage slots.

The proposal was [audited by Open Zeppelin](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iZ4x9OgfD2dCxdDGbBiBX4p5royjH5FG/view), who found three low-severity issues, which have since been addressed.


### **[ZIP-002] Reduce the execution delay from 21 hours to 3 hours**

Sampka from Matter Labs [submitted a proposal](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zip-002-reduce-the-execution-delay-from-21-hours-to-3-hours/305) that suggests decreasing the execution delay on ZK Chains from the current 21 hours to 3 hours to enhance user experience and operational efficiency, leveraging the recently established Security Council for rapid response in emergencies.


### **ZKsync Ignite Program Update - Friday Nov. 22nd 2024**

BaptistG from Merkl [published a post](https://forum.zknation.io/t/zksync-ignite-program-update-friday-nov-22nd-2024/323) with an update on the recently passed ZKsync Ignite Program. They have already set up a [website](https://zksyncignite.xyz/) for the program, and while there is no exact start date yet, the DSC (DeFi Steering Committee) plans to finalize the initial group of DeFi participants next week.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

We’re interested in discussing the two active proposals with other delegates and relevant parties. While we do not have dedicated office hours for ZKsync yet, you can [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat!


## **Scroll**


### **Ideas on improving % delegated**

Eugene, the governance lead at Scroll, [started a thread](https://forum.scroll.io/t/ideas-on-improving-delegated/301) to discuss ideas on improving the % of SCR delegated. Contributors are invited to comment under the thread to crowdsource ideas, which will be discussed towards the end of the year and at the start of 2025.


### **Voting on Ideas**

In order for the Scroll DAO community to provide input on which ideas to focus on for the next phase of co-design, Eugene published a post where he shared 2 Pol.is links. At each link, people can vote on statements made by others (anonymously) to show their agreement or disagreement.



* [Growth and Community](https://pol.is/8pjxekm64b)
* [Governance Iteration](https://pol.is/98edhtcrf5)

The vote will be open from 10p EST/UTC-5 Sunday evening (Nov 24, 2024) until 7:30a EST/UTC-5 Wednesday morning (Nov 27, 2024).


### **Recap - Scroll Alignment Workshops Nov 4-5**

Kineticsarah [published a recap](https://forum.scroll.io/t/recap-scroll-alignment-workshops-nov-4-5/283) of the Scroll Alignment Workshops that happened on November 4 and 5. 

 In each workshop, ideas were sourced around three key areas of focus:



* **Ecosystem Growth**: Identify what is driving growth across various protocols and projects, as well as what is currently under-explored that can help drive growth and innovation on Scroll.
* **Global Community:** Determine where to direct resources and efforts globally to maximize impact and support local communities effectively.
* **Governance Iterations:** Address the most pressing challenges in governance and test cutting-edge approaches to improve decision-making processes and effective coordination.

**Discuss with L2BEAT**

There are many things we’re keen to discuss with other delegates and relevant stakeholders on Scroll. While we do not have dedicated office hours for Scroll yet, you can [message us](https://t.me/sinkas5), and we’ll find time to chat!

**Upcoming Events (Times in UTC)**

[#10 - Proposal Co-Design](meet.google.com/kbx-ivub-zhs) on 27.11 at 12:30

[#11 - Proposal Co-Design](meet.google.com/zty-msoz-goo) on 27.11 at 18:00